<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">I</h2><p epub:type="title">A Woman in Green and a Man in Gray</p></hgroup>

<p>I first heard Personville called Poisonville by a red-haired
mucker named Hickey Dewey in the Big Ship in Butte. He also called his
shirt a shoit. I didn’t think anything of what he had done to the city’s
name. Later I heard men who could manage their r’s give it the same
pronunciation. I still didn’t see anything in it but the meaningless sort of
humor that used to make richardsnary the thieves’ word for dictionary. A
few years later I went to Personville and learned better.</p>

<p>Using one of the phones in the station, I called the <i>Herald</i>, asked for
Donald Willsson, and told him I had arrived.</p>

<p>“Will you come out to my house at ten this evening?” He had a pleasantly
crisp voice. “It’s 2101 Mountain Boulevard. Take a Broadway car, get
off at Laurel Avenue, and walk two blocks west.”</p>

<p>I promised to do that. Then I rode up to the Great Western Hotel,
dumped my bags, and went out to look at the city.</p>

<p>The city wasn’t pretty. Most of its builders had gone in for gaudiness.
Maybe they had been successful at first. Since then the smelters whose
brick stacks stuck up tall against a gloomy mountain to the south had
yellow-smoked everything into uniform dinginess. The result was an ugly
city of forty thousand people, set in an ugly notch between two ugly mountains
that had been all dirtied up by mining. Spread over this was a grimy
sky that looked as if it had come out of the smelters’ stacks.</p>

<p>The first policeman I saw needed a shave. The second had a couple of
buttons off his shabby uniform. The third stood in the center of the city’s
main intersection—Broadway and Union Street—directing traffic, with a
cigar in one corner of his mouth. After that I stopped checking them up.</p>

<p>At nine-thirty I caught a Broadway car and followed the directions
Donald Willsson had given me. They brought me to a house set in a
hedged grassplot on a corner.</p>

<p>The maid who opened the door told me Mr. Willsson was not home.
While I was explaining that I had an appointment with him a slender
blonde woman of something less than thirty in green crêpe came to the
door. When she smiled her blue eyes didn’t lose their stoniness. I repeated
my explanation to her.</p>

<p>“My husband isn’t in now.” A barely noticeable accent slurred her
s’s. “But if he’s expecting you he’ll probably be home shortly.”</p>

<p>She took me upstairs to a room on the Laurel Avenue side of the
house, a brown and red room with a lot of books in it. We sat in leather
chairs, half facing each other, half facing a burning coal grate, and she set
about learning my business with her husband.</p>

<p>“Do you live in Personville?” she asked first.</p>

<p>“No. San Francisco.”</p>

<p>“But this isn’t your first visit?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“Really? How do you like our city?”</p>

<p>“I haven’t seen enough of it to know.” That was a lie. I had. “I got in
only this afternoon.”</p>

<p>Her shiny eyes stopped prying while she said:</p>

<p>“You’ll find it a dreary place.” She returned to her digging with: “I
suppose all mining towns are like this. Are you engaged in mining?”</p>

<p>“Not just now.”</p>

<p>She looked at the clock on the mantel and said:</p>

<p>“It’s inconsiderate of Donald to bring you out here and then keep you
waiting, at this time of night, long after business hours.”</p>

<p>I said that was all right.</p>

<p>“Though perhaps it isn’t a business matter,” she suggested.</p>

<p>I didn’t say anything.</p>

<p>She laughed—a short laugh with something sharp in it.</p>

<p>“I’m really not ordinarily so much of a busybody as you probably
think,” she said gaily. “But you’re so excessively secretive that I can’t help
being curious. You aren’t a bootlegger, are you? Donald changes them so
often.”</p>

<p>I let her get whatever she could out of a grin.</p>

<p>A telephone bell rang downstairs. Mrs. Willsson stretched her green-slippered
feet out toward the burning coal and pretended she hadn’t heard
the bell. I didn’t know why she thought that necessary.</p>

<p>She began: “I’m afraid I’ll ha—” and stopped to look at the maid in
the doorway.</p>

<p>The maid said Mrs. Willsson was wanted at the phone. She excused
herself and followed the maid out. She didn’t go downstairs, but spoke
over an extension within earshot.</p>

<p>I heard: “Mrs. Willsson speaking.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Yes.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. I beg your pardon?
.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Who? .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Can’t you speak a little louder? .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. <i>What?</i> .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Yes.
.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Yes.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Who is this? .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Hello! Hello!”</p>

<p>The telephone hook rattled. Her steps sounded down the hallway—rapid
steps.</p>

<p>I set fire to a cigarette and stared at it until I heard her going down
the steps. Then I went to a window, lifted an edge of the blind, and looked
out at Laurel Avenue, and at the square white garage that stood in the rear
of the house on that side.</p>

<p>Presently a slender woman in dark coat and hat came into sight hurrying
from house to garage. It was Mrs. Willsson. She drove away in a
Buick coupé. I went back to my chair and waited.</p>

<p>Three-quarters of an hour went by. At five minutes after eleven,
automobile brakes screeched outside. Two minutes later Mrs. Willsson
came into the room. She had taken off hat and coat. Her face was white,
her eyes almost black.</p>

<p>“I’m awfully sorry,” she said, her tight-lipped mouth moving jerkily,
“but you’ve had all this waiting for nothing. My husband won’t be home
tonight.”</p>

<p>I said I would get in touch with him at the <i>Herald</i> in the morning.</p>

<p>I went away wondering why the green toe of her left slipper was dark
and damp with something that could have been blood.</p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;">∴</p>

<p>I walked over to Broadway and caught a street car. Three blocks north of
my hotel I got off to see what the crowd was doing around a side entrance
of the City Hall.</p>

<p>Thirty or forty men and a sprinkling of women stood on the sidewalk
looking at a door marked <i>Police Department</i>. There were men from mines
and smelters still in their working clothes, gaudy boys from pool rooms
and dance halls, sleek men with slick pale faces, men with the dull look of
respectable husbands, a few just as respectable and dull women, and some
ladies of the night.</p>

<p>On the edge of this congregation I stopped beside a square-set man
in rumpled gray clothes. His face was grayish too, even the thick lips,
though he wasn’t much older than thirty. His face was broad, thick-featured
and intelligent. For color he depended on a red Windsor tie that
blossomed over his gray flannel shirt.</p>

<p>“What’s the rumpus?” I asked him.</p>

<p>He looked at me carefully before he replied, as if he wanted to be
sure that the information was going into safe hands. His eyes were gray as
his clothes, but not so soft.</p>

<p>“Don Willsson’s gone to sit on the right hand of God, if God don’t
mind looking at bullet-holes.”</p>

<p>“Who shot him?” I asked.</p>

<p>The gray man scratched the back of his neck and said:</p>

<p>“Somebody with a gun.”</p>

<p>I wanted information, not wit. I would have tried my luck with some
other member of the crowd if the red tie hadn’t interested me. I said:</p>

<p>“I’m a stranger in town. Hang the Punch and Judy on me. That’s what
strangers are for.”</p>

<p>“Donald Willsson, Esquire, publisher of the <i>Morning</i> and <i>Evening
Heralds</i>, was found in Hurricane Street a little while ago, shot very dead
by parties unknown,” he recited in a rapid singsong. “Does that keep your
feelings from being hurt?”</p>

<p>“Thanks.” I put out a finger and touched a loose end of his tie. “Mean
anything? Or just wearing it?”</p>

<p>“I’m Bill Quint.”</p>

<p>“The hell you are!” I exclaimed, trying to place the name. “By God,
I’m glad to meet you!”</p>

<p>I dug out my card case and ran through the collection of credentials
I had picked up here and there by one means or another. The red card was
the one I wanted. It identified me as Henry F. Neill, A. B. seaman, member
in good standing of the Industrial Workers of the World. There wasn’t
a word of truth in it.</p>

<p>I passed this card to Bill Quint. He read it carefully, front and back,
returned it to my hand, and looked me over from hat to shoes, not trustfully.</p>

<p>“He’s not going to die any more,” he said. “Which way you going?”</p>

<p>“Any.”</p>

<p>We walked down the street together, turned a corner, aimlessly as far
as I knew.</p>

<p>“What brought you in here, if you’re a sailor?” he asked casually.</p>

<p>“Where’d you get that idea?”</p>

<p>“There’s the card.”</p>

<p>“I got another that proves I’m a timber beast,” I said. “If you want
me to be a miner I’ll get one for that tomorrow.”</p>

<p>“You won’t. I run ’em here.”</p>

<p>“Suppose you got a wire from Chi?” I asked.</p>

<p>“Hell with Chi! I run ’em here.” He nodded at a restaurant door and
asked: “Drink?”</p>

<p>“Only when I can get it.”</p>

<p>We went through the restaurant, up a flight of steps, and into a narrow
second-story room with a long bar and a row of tables. Bill Quint
nodded and said, “Hullo!” to some of the boys and girls at tables and bar,
and steered me into one of the green-curtained booths that lined the wall
opposite the bar.</p>

<p>We spent the next two hours drinking whiskey and talking.</p>

<p>The gray man didn’t think I had any right to the card I had showed
him, nor to the other one I had mentioned. He didn’t think I was a good
wobbly. As chief muckademuck of the I. W. W. in Personville, he considered
it his duty to get the low-down on me, and to not let himself be
pumped about radical affairs while he was doing it.</p>

<p>That was all right with me. I was interested in Personville affairs. He
didn’t mind discussing them between casual pokings into my business
with the red cards.</p>

<p>What I got out of him amounted to this:</p>

<p>For forty years old Elihu Willsson—father of the man who had been
killed this night—had owned Personville, heart, soul, skin and guts. He was
president and majority stockholder of the Personville Mining Corporation,
ditto of the First National Bank, owner of the <i>Morning Herald</i> and <i>Evening
Herald</i>, the city’s only newspapers, and at least part owner of nearly
every other enterprise of any importance. Along with these pieces of property
he owned a United States senator, a couple of representatives, the
governor, the mayor, and most of the state legislature. Elihu Willsson was
Personville, and he was almost the whole state.</p>

<p>Back in the war days the I. W. W.—in full bloom then throughout
the West—had lined up the Personville Mining Corporation’s help. The
help hadn’t been exactly pampered. They used their new strength to demand
the things they wanted. Old Elihu gave them what he had to give
them, and bided his time.</p>

<p>In 1921 it came. Business was rotten. Old Elihu didn’t care whether
he shut down for a while or not. He tore up the agreements he had made
with his men and began kicking them back into their pre-war circumstances.</p>

<p>Of course the help yelled for help. Bill Quint was sent out from
I. W. W. headquarters in Chicago to give them some action. He was
against a strike, an open walk-out. He advised the old sabotage racket,
staying on the job and gumming things up from the inside. But that wasn’t
active enough for the Personville crew. They wanted to put themselves on
the map, make labor history.</p>

<p>They struck.</p>

<p>The strike lasted eight months. Both sides bled plenty. The wobblies
had to do their own bleeding. Old Elihu hired gunmen, strike-breakers,
national guardsmen and even parts of the regular army, to do his. When
the last skull had been cracked, the last rib kicked in, organized labor in
Personville was a used firecracker.</p>

<p>But, said Bill Quint, old Elihu didn’t know his Italian history. He
won the strike, but he lost his hold on the city and the state. To beat the
miners he had to let his hired thugs run wild. When the fight was over he
couldn’t get rid of them. He had given his city to them and he wasn’t
strong enough to take it away from them. Personville looked good to them
and they took it over. They had won his strike for him and they took the
city for their spoils. He couldn’t openly break with them. They had too
much on him. He was responsible for all they had done during the strike.</p>

<p>Bill Quint and I were both fairly mellow by the time we had got this
far. He emptied his glass again, pushed his hair out of his eyes and brought
his history up to date:</p>

<p>“The strongest of ’em now is probably Pete the Finn. This stuff we’re
drinking’s his. Then there’s Lew Yard. He’s got a loan shop down on
Parker Street, does a lot of bail bond business, handles most of the burg’s
hot stuff, so they tell me, and is pretty thick with Noonan, the chief of
police. This kid Max Thaler—Whisper—has got a lot of friends too. A little
slick dark guy with something wrong with his throat. Can’t talk. Gambler.
Those three, with Noonan, just about help Elihu run his city—help him
more than he wants. But he’s got to play with ’em or else—”</p>

<p>“This fellow who was knocked off tonight—Elihu’s son—where did he
stand?” I asked.</p>

<p>“Where papa put him, and he’s where papa put him now.”</p>

<p>“You mean the old man had him—?”</p>

<p>“Maybe, but that’s not my guess. This Don just came home and began
running the papers for the old man. It wasn’t like the old devil, even
if he was getting close to the grave, to let anybody cop anything from him
without hitting back. But he had to be cagey with these guys. He brought
the boy and his French wife home from Paris and used him for his monkey—a
damned nice fatherly trick. Don starts a reform campaign in the
papers. Clear the burg of vice and corruption—which means clear it of Pete
and Lew and Whisper, if it goes far enough. Get it? The old man’s using
the boy to shake ’em loose. I guess they got tired of being shook.”</p>

<p>“There seems to be a few things wrong with that guess,” I said.</p>

<p>“There’s more than a few things wrong with everything in this lousy
burg. Had enough of this paint?”</p>

<p>I said I had. We went down to the street. Bill Quint told me he was
living in the Miners’ Hotel in Forest Street. His way home ran past my
hotel, so we walked down together. In front of my hotel a beefy fellow
with the look of a plain-clothes man stood on the curb and talked to the
occupant of a Stutz touring car.</p>

<p>“That’s Whisper in the car,” Bill Quint told me.</p>

<p>I looked past the beefy man and saw Thaler’s profile. It was young,
dark and small, with pretty features as regular as if they had been cut by a
die.</p>

<p>“He’s cute,” I said.</p>

<p>“Uh-huh,” the gray man agreed, “and so’s dynamite.”</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">II</h2><p epub:type="title">The Czar of Poisonville</p></hgroup>

<p>The <i>Morning Herald</i> gave two pages to Donald Willsson
and his death. His picture showed a pleasant intelligent face with curly
hair, smiling eyes and mouth, a cleft chin and a striped necktie.</p>

<p>The story of his death was simple. At ten-forty the previous night he
had been shot four times in stomach, chest and back, dying immediately.
The shooting had taken place in the eleven-hundred block of Hurricane
Street. Residents of that block who looked out after hearing the shots saw
the dead man lying on the sidewalk. A man and a woman were bending
over him. The street was too dark for anyone to see anybody or anything
clearly. The man and woman had disappeared before anybody else reached
the street. Nobody knew what they looked like. Nobody had seen them go
away.</p>

<p>Six shots had been fired at Willsson from a .32 calibre pistol. Two of
them had missed him, going into the front wall of a house. Tracing the
course of these two bullets, the police had learned that the shooting had
been done from a narrow alley across the street. That was all anybody
knew.</p>

<p>Editorially the <i>Morning Herald</i> gave a summary of the dead man’s
short career as a civic reformer and expressed a belief that he had been
killed by some of the people who didn’t want Personville cleaned up. The
<i>Herald</i> said the chief of police could best show his own lack of complicity
by speedily catching and convicting the murderer or murderers. The editorial
was blunt and bitter.</p>

<p>I finished it with my second cup of coffee, jumped a Broadway car,
dropped off at Laurel Avenue, and turned down toward the dead man’s
house.</p>

<p>I was half a block from it when something changed my mind and my
destination.</p>

<p>A smallish young man in three shades of brown crossed the street
ahead of me. His dark profile was pretty. He was Max Thaler, alias Whisper.
I reached the corner of Mountain Boulevard in time to catch the flash
of his brown-covered rear leg vanishing into the late Donald Willsson’s
doorway.</p>

<p>I went back to Broadway, found a drug store with a phone booth in
it, searched the directory for Elihu Willsson’s residence number, called it,
told somebody who claimed to be the old man’s secretary that I had been
brought from San Francisco by Donald Willsson, that I knew something
about his death, and that I wanted to see his father.</p>

<p>When I made it emphatic enough I got an invitation to call.</p>

<p>The czar of Poisonville was propped up in bed when his secretary—a
noiseless slim sharp-eyed man of forty—brought me into the bedroom.</p>

<p>The old man’s head was small and almost perfectly round under its
close-cut crop of white hair. His ears were too small and plastered too flat
to the sides of his head to spoil the spherical effect. His nose also was
small, carrying down the curve of his bony forehead. Mouth and chin were
straight lines chopping the sphere off. Below them a short thick neck ran
down into white pajamas between square meaty shoulders. One of his arms
was outside the covers, a short compact arm that ended in a thick-fingered
blunt hand. His eyes were round, blue, small and watery. They looked
as if they were hiding behind the watery film and under the bushy white
brows only until the time came to jump out and grab something. He
wasn’t the sort of man whose pocket you’d try to pick unless you had a lot
of confidence in your fingers.</p>

<p>He ordered me into a bedside chair with a two-inch jerk of his round
head, chased the secretary away with another, and asked:</p>

<p>“What’s this about my son?”</p>

<p>His voice was harsh. His chest had too much and his mouth too little
to do with his words for them to be very clear.</p>

<p>“I’m a Continental Detective Agency operative, San Francisco
branch,” I told him. “A couple of days ago we got a check from your son
and a letter asking that a man be sent here to do some work for him. I’m
the man. He told me to come out to his house last night. I did, but he
didn’t show up. When I got downtown I learned he had been killed.”</p>

<p>Elihu Willsson peered suspiciously at me and asked:</p>

<p>“Well, what of it?”</p>

<p>“While I was waiting your daughter-in-law got a phone message, went
out, came back with what looked like blood on her shoe, and told me her
husband wouldn’t be home. He was shot at ten-forty. She went out at ten-twenty,
came back at eleven-five.”</p>

<p>The old man sat straight up in bed and called young Mrs. Willsson a
flock of things. When he ran out of words of that sort he still had some
breath left. He used it to shout at me:</p>

<p>“Is she in jail?”</p>

<p>I said I didn’t think so.</p>

<p>He didn’t like her not being in jail. He was nasty about it. He bawled
a lot of things I didn’t like, winding up with:</p>

<p>“What the hell are you waiting for?”</p>

<p>He was too old and too sick to be smacked. I laughed and said:</p>

<p>“For evidence.”</p>

<p>“Evidence? What do you need? You’ve—”</p>

<p>“Don’t be a chump,” I interrupted his bawling. “Why should she kill
him?”</p>

<p>“Because she’s a French hussy! Because she—”</p>

<p>The secretary’s frightened face appeared at the door.</p>

<p>“Get out of here!” the old man roared at it, and the face went.</p>

<p>“She jealous?” I asked before he could go on with his shouting. “And
if you don’t yell maybe I’ll be able to hear you anyway. My deafness is a
lot better since I’ve been eating yeast.”</p>

<p>He put a fist on top of each hump his thighs made in the covers and
pushed his square chin at me.</p>

<p>“Old as I am and sick as I am,” he said very deliberately, “I’ve a great
mind to get up and kick your behind.”</p>

<p>I paid no attention to that, repeating:</p>

<p>“Was she jealous?”</p>

<p>“She was,” he said, not yelling now, “and domineering, and spoiled,
and suspicious, and greedy, and mean, and unscrupulous, and deceitful,
and selfish, and damned bad—altogether damned bad!”</p>

<p>“Any reason for her jealousy?”</p>

<p>“I hope so,” he said bitterly. “I’d hate to think a son of mine would
be faithful to her. Though likely enough he was. He’d do things like that.”</p>

<p>“But you don’t know any reason why she should have killed him?”</p>

<p>“Don’t know any reason?” He was bellowing again. “Haven’t I been
telling you that—”</p>

<p>“Yeah. But none of that means anything. It’s kind of childish.”</p>

<p>The old man flung the covers back from his legs and started to get
out of bed. Then he thought better of it, raised his red face and roared:</p>

<p>“Stanley!”</p>

<p>The door opened to let the secretary glide in.</p>

<p>“Throw this bastard out!” his master ordered, waving a fist at me.</p>

<p>The secretary turned to me. I shook my head and suggested:</p>

<p>“Better get help.”</p>

<p>He frowned. We were about the same age. He was weedy, nearly a
head taller than I, but fifty pounds lighter. Some of my hundred and
ninety pounds were fat, but not all of them. The secretary fidgeted, smiled
apologetically, and went away.</p>

<p>“What I was about to say,” I told the old man: “I intended talking to
your son’s wife this morning. But I saw Max Thaler go into the house, so
I postponed my visit.”</p>

<p>Elihu Willsson carefully pulled the covers up over his legs again,
leaned his head back on the pillows, screwed his eyes up at the ceiling, and
said:</p>

<p>“Hm-m-m, so that’s the way it is, is it?”</p>

<p>“Mean anything?”</p>

<p>“She killed him,” he said certainly. “That’s what it means.”</p>

<p>Feet made noises in the hall, huskier feet than the secretary’s. When
they were just outside the door I began a sentence:</p>

<p>“You were using your son to run a—”</p>

<p>“Get out of here!” the old man yelled at those in the doorway. “And
keep that door closed.” He glowered at me and demanded: “What was I
using my son for?”</p>

<p>“To put the knife in Thaler, Yard and the Finn.”</p>

<p>“You’re a liar.”</p>

<p>“I didn’t invent the story. It’s all over Personville.”</p>

<p>“It’s a lie. I gave him the papers. He did what he wanted with them.”</p>

<p>“You ought to explain that to your playmates. They’d believe you.”</p>

<p>“What they believe be damned! What I’m telling you is so.”</p>

<p>“What of it? Your son won’t come back to life just because he was
killed by mistake—if he was.”</p>

<p>“That woman killed him.”</p>

<p>“Maybe.”</p>

<p>“Damn you and your maybes! She did.”</p>

<p>“Maybe. But the other angle has got to be looked into too—the political
end. You can tell me—”</p>

<p>“I can tell you that that French hussy killed him, and I can tell you
that any other damned numbskull notions you’ve got are way off the lode.”</p>

<p>“But they’ve got to be looked into,” I insisted. “And you know the inside
of Personville politics better than anyone else I’m likely to find. He
was your son. The least you can do is—”</p>

<p>“The least I can do,” he bellowed, “is tell you to get to hell back to
Frisco, you and your numbskull—”</p>

<p>I got up and said unpleasantly:</p>

<p>“I’m at the Great Western Hotel. Don’t bother me unless you want
to talk sense for a change.”</p>

<p>I went out of the bedroom and down the stairs. The secretary hovered
around the bottom step, smiling apologetically.</p>

<p>“A fine old rowdy,” I growled.</p>

<p>“A remarkably vital personality,” he murmured.</p>

<hr/>

<p>At the office of the <i>Herald</i>, I hunted up the murdered man’s secretary.
She was a small girl of nineteen or twenty with wide chestnut eyes, light
brown hair and a pale pretty face. Her name was Lewis.</p>

<p>She said she hadn’t known anything about my being called to Personville
by her employer.</p>

<p>“But then,” she explained, “Mr. Willsson always liked to keep everything
to himself as long as he could. It was—I don’t think he trusted anybody
here, completely.”</p>

<p>“Not you?”</p>

<p>She flushed and said:</p>

<p>“No. But of course he had been here such a short while and didn’t
know any of us very well.”</p>

<p>“There must have been more to it than that.”</p>

<p>“Well,” she bit her lip and made a row of forefinger prints down the
polished edge of the dead man’s desk, “his father wasn’t—wasn’t in sympathy
with what he was doing. Since his father really owned the papers,
I suppose it was natural for Mr. Donald to think some of the employes
might be more loyal to Mr. Elihu than to him.”</p>

<p>“The old man wasn’t in favor of the reform campaign? Why did he
stand for it, if the papers were his?”</p>

<p>She bent her head to study the finger prints she had made. Her voice
was low.</p>

<p>“It’s not easy to understand unless you know—The last time Mr.
Elihu was taken sick he sent for Donald—Mr. Donald. Mr. Donald had
lived in Europe most of his life, you know. Dr. Pride told Mr. Elihu that
he’d have to give up the management of his affairs, so he cabled his son to
come home. But when Mr. Donald got here Mr. Elihu couldn’t make up
his mind to let go of everything. But he wanted Mr. Donald to stay here,
so he gave him the newspapers—that is, made him publisher. Mr. Donald
liked that. He had been interested in journalism in Paris. When he found
out how terrible everything was here—in civic affairs and so on—he started
that reform campaign. He didn’t know—he had been away since he was a
boy—he didn’t know—”</p>

<p>“He didn’t know his father was in it as deep as anybody else,” I
helped her along.</p>

<p>She squirmed a little over her examination of the finger prints, didn’t
contradict me, and went on:</p>

<p>“Mr. Elihu and he had a quarrel. Mr. Elihu told him to stop stirring
things up, but he wouldn’t stop. Maybe he would have stopped if he had
known—all there was to know. But I don’t suppose it would ever have occurred
to him that his father was really seriously implicated. And his father
wouldn’t tell him. I suppose it would be hard for a father to tell a son
a thing like that. He threatened to take the papers away from Mr. Donald.
I don’t know whether he intended to or not. But he was taken sick again,
and everything went along as it did.”</p>

<p>“Donald Willsson didn’t confide in you?” I asked.</p>

<p>“No.” It was almost a whisper.</p>

<p>“Then you learned all this where?”</p>

<p>“I’m trying—trying to help you learn who murdered him,” she said
earnestly. “You’ve no right to—”</p>

<p>“You’ll help me most just now by telling me where you learned all
this,” I insisted.</p>

<p>She stared at the desk, chewing her lower lip. I waited. Presently she
said:</p>

<p>“My father is Mr. Willsson’s secretary.”</p>

<p>“Thanks.”</p>

<p>“But you mustn’t think that we—”</p>

<p>“It’s nothing to me,” I assured her. “What was Willsson doing in
Hurricane Street last night when he had a date with me at his house?”</p>

<p>She said she didn’t know. I asked her if she had heard him tell me,
over the phone, to come to his house at ten o’clock. She said she had.</p>

<p>“What did he do after that? Try to remember every least thing that
was said and done from then until you left at the end of the day.”</p>

<p>She leaned back in her chair, shut her eyes and wrinkled her forehead.</p>

<p>“You called up—if it was you he told to come to his house—at about
two o’clock. After that Mr. Donald dictated some letters, one to a paper
mill, one to Senator Keefer about some changes in post office regulations,
and—Oh, yes! He went out for about twenty minutes, a little before three.
And before he went he wrote out a check.”</p>

<p>“Who for?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know, but I saw him writing it.”</p>

<p>“Where’s his check book? Carry it with him?”</p>

<p>“It’s here.” She jumped up, went around to the front of his desk, and
tried the top drawer. “Locked.”</p>

<p>I joined her, straightened out a wire clip, and with that and a blade
of my knife fiddled the drawer open.</p>

<p>The girl took out a thin, flat First National Bank check book. The
last used stub was marked $5,000. Nothing else. No name. No explanation.</p>

<p>“He went out with this check,” I said, “and was gone twenty minutes?
Long enough to get to the bank and back?”</p>

<p>“It wouldn’t have taken him more than five minutes to get there.”</p>

<p>“Didn’t anything else happen before he wrote out the check? Think.
Any messages? Letters? Phone calls?”</p>

<p>“Lets see.” She shut her eyes again. “He was dictating some mail
and—Oh, how stupid of me! He did have a phone call. He said: ‘Yes, I
can be there at ten, but I shall have to hurry away.’ Then again he said:
‘Very well, at ten.’ That was all he said except, ‘Yes, yes,’ several times.”</p>

<p>“Talking to a man or a woman?”</p>

<p>“I didn’t know.”</p>

<p>“Think. There’d be a difference in his voice.”</p>

<p>She thought and said:</p>

<p>“Then it was a woman.”</p>

<p>“Which of you—you or he—left first in the evening?”</p>

<p>“I did. He—I told you my father is Mr. Elihu’s secretary. He and Mr.
Donald had an engagement for the early part of the evening—something
about the paper’s finances. Father came in a little after five. They were
going to dinner together, I think.”</p>

<p>That was all the Lewis girl could give me. She knew nothing that
would explain Willsson’s presence in the eleven-hundred block of Hurricane
Street, she said. She admitted knowing nothing about Mrs. Willsson.</p>

<p>We frisked the dead man’s desk, and dug up nothing in any way informative.
I went up against the girls at the switchboard, and learned
nothing. I put in an hour’s work on messengers, city editors, and the like,
and my pumping brought up nothing. The dead man, as his secretary said,
had been a good hand at keeping his affairs to himself.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">III</h2><p epub:type="title">Dinah Brand</p></hgroup>

<p>At the First National Bank I got hold of an assistant cashier
named Albury, a nice-looking blond youngster of twenty-five or so.</p>

<p>“I certified the check for Willsson,” he said after I had explained what
I was up to. “It was drawn to the order of Dinah Brand—$5,000.”</p>

<p>“Know who she is?”</p>

<p>“Oh, yes! I know her.”</p>

<p>“Mind telling me what you know about her?”</p>

<p>“Not at all. I’d be glad to, but I’m already eight minutes overdue at a
meeting with—”</p>

<p>“Can you have dinner with me this evening and give it to me then?”</p>

<p>“That’ll be fine,” he said.</p>

<p>“Seven o’clock at the Great Western?”</p>

<p>“Righto.”</p>

<p>“I’ll run along and let you get to your meeting, but tell me, has she
an account here?”</p>

<p>“Yes, and she deposited the check this morning. The police have it.”</p>

<p>“Yeah? And where does she live?”</p>

<p>“1232 Hurricane Street.”</p>

<p>I said: “Well, well!” and, “See you tonight,” and went away.</p>

<p>My next stop was in the office of the chief of police, in the City Hall.</p>

<p>Noonan, the chief, was a fat man with twinkling greenish eyes set in
a round jovial face. When I told him what I was doing in his city
he seemed glad of it. He gave me a hand-shake, a cigar and a chair.</p>

<p>“Now,” he said when we were settled, “tell me who turned the trick.”</p>

<p>“The secret’s safe with me.”</p>

<p>“You and me both,” he said cheerfully through smoke. “But what do
you guess?”</p>

<p>“I’m no good at guessing, especially when I haven’t got the facts.”</p>

<p>“ ’Twon’t take long to give you all the facts there is,” he said. “Willsson
got a five-grand check in Dinah Brand’s name certified yesterday just
before bank closing. Last night he was killed by slugs from a .32 less than a
block from her house. People that heard the shooting saw a man and a
woman bending over the remains. Bright and early this morning the said
Dinah Brand deposits the said check in the said bank. Well?”</p>

<p>“Who is this Dinah Brand?”</p>

<p>The chief dumped the ash off his cigar in the center of his desk,
flourished the cigar in his fat hand, and said:</p>

<p>“A soiled dove, as the fellow says, a de luxe hustler, a big-league
gold-digger.”</p>

<p>“Gone up against her yet?”</p>

<p>“No. There’s a couple of slants to be taken care of first. We’re keeping
an eye on her and waiting. This I’ve told you is under the hat.”</p>

<p>“Yeah. Now listen to this,” and I told him what I had seen and heard
while waiting in Donald Willsson’s house the previous night.</p>

<p>When I had finished the chief bunched his fat mouth, whistled softly,
and exclaimed:</p>

<p>“Man, that’s an interesting thing you’ve been telling me! So it was
blood on her slipper? And she said her husband wouldn’t be home?”</p>

<p>“That’s what I took it for,” I said to the first question, and, “Yeah,”
to the second.</p>

<p>“Have you done any talking to her since then?” he asked.</p>

<p>“No. I was up that way this morning, but a young fellow named
Thaler went into the house ahead of me, so I put off my visit.”</p>

<p>“Grease us twice!” His greenish eyes glittered happily. “Are you telling
me the Whisper was there?”</p>

<p>“Yeah.”</p>

<p>He threw his cigar on the floor, stood up, planted his fat hands on
the desk top, and leaned over them toward me, oozing delight from every
pore.</p>

<p>“Man, you’ve done something,” he purred. “Dinah Brand is this
Whisper’s woman. Let’s me and you just go out and kind of talk to the
widow.”</p>

<hr/>

<p>We climbed out of the chief’s car in front of Mrs. Willsson’s residence.
The chief stopped for a second with one foot on the bottom step to look
at the black crêpe hanging over the bell. Then he said, “Well, what’s got
to be done has got to be done,” and we went up the steps.</p>

<p>Mrs. Willsson wasn’t anxious to see us, but people usually see the
chief of police if he insists. This one did. We were taken upstairs to where
Donald Willsson’s widow sat in the library. She was in black. Her blue
eyes had frost in them.</p>

<p>Noonan and I took turns mumbling condolences and then he began:</p>

<p>“We just wanted to ask you a couple of questions. For instance, like
where’d you go last night?”</p>

<p>She looked disagreeably at me, then back to the chief, frowned, and
spoke haughtily:</p>

<p>“May I ask why I am being questioned in this manner?”</p>

<p>I wondered how many times I had heard that question, word for
word and tone for tone, while the chief, disregarding it, went on amiably:</p>

<p>“And then there was something about one of your shoes being stained.
The right one, or maybe the left. Anyways it was one or the other.”</p>

<p>A muscle began twitching in her upper lip.</p>

<p>“Was that all?” the chief asked me. Before I could answer he made a
clucking noise with his tongue and turned his genial face to the woman
again. “I almost forgot. There was a matter of how you knew your husband
wouldn’t be home.”</p>

<p>She got up, unsteadily, holding the back of her chair with one white
hand.</p>

<p>“I’m sure you’ll excuse—”</p>

<p>“ ’S all right.” The chief made a big-hearted gesture with one beefy
paw. “We don’t want to bother you. Just where you went, and about the
shoe, and how you knew he wasn’t coming back. And, come to think of it,
there’s another—What Thaler wanted here this morning.”</p>

<p>Mrs. Willsson sat down again, very rigidly. The chief looked at her.
A smile that tried to be tender made funny lines and humps in his fat
face. After a little while her shoulders began to relax, her chin went lower,
a curve came in her back.</p>

<p>I put a chair facing her and sat on it.</p>

<p>“You’ll have to tell us, Mrs. Willsson,” I said, making it as sympathetic
as I could. “These things have got to be explained.”</p>

<p>“Do you think I have anything to hide?” she asked defiantly, sitting
up straight and stiff again, turning each word out very precisely, except
that the s’s were a bit slurred. “I did go out. The stain was blood. I knew
my husband was dead. Thaler came to see me about my husband’s death.
Are your questions answered now?”</p>

<p>“We knew all that,” I said. “We’re asking you to explain them.”</p>

<p>She stood up again, said angrily:</p>

<p>“I dislike your manner. I refuse to submit to—”</p>

<p>Noonan said:</p>

<p>“That’s perfectly all right, Mrs. Willsson, only we’ll have to ask you
to go down to the Hall with us.”</p>

<p>She turned her back to him, took a deep breath and threw words at
me:</p>

<p>“While we were waiting here for Donald I had a telephone call. It was
a man who wouldn’t give his name. He said Donald had gone to the home
of a woman named Dinah Brand with a check for five thousand dollars.
He gave me her address. Then I drove out there and waited down the
street in the car until Donald came out.</p>

<p>“While I was waiting there I saw Max Thaler, whom I knew by sight.
He went to the woman’s house, but didn’t go in. He went away. Then
Donald came out and walked down the street. He didn’t see me. I didn’t
want him to. I intended to drive home—get here before he came. I had
just started the engine when I heard the shots, and I saw Donald fall. I got
out of the car and ran over to him. He was dead. I was frantic. Then Thaler
came. He said if I were found there they would say I had killed him.
He made me run back to the car and drive home.”</p>

<p>Tears were in her eyes. Through the water her eyes studied my face,
apparently trying to learn how I took the story. I didn’t say anything. She
asked:</p>

<p>“Is that what you wanted?”</p>

<p>“Practically,” Noonan said. He had walked around to one side.
“What did Thaler say this afternoon?”</p>

<p>“He urged me to keep quiet.” Her voice had become small and flat.
“He said either or both of us would be suspected if anyone learned we
were there, because Donald had been killed coming from the woman’s
house after giving her money.”</p>

<p>“Where did the shots come from?” the chief asked.</p>

<p>“I don’t know. I didn’t see anything—except—when I looked up—Donald
falling.”</p>

<p>“Did Thaler fire them?”</p>

<p>“No,” she said quickly. Then her mouth and eyes spread. She put a
hand to her breast. “I don’t know. I didn’t think so, and he said he didn’t.
I don’t know where he was. I don’t know why I never thought he might
have.”</p>

<p>“What do you think now?” Noonan asked.</p>

<p>“He—he may have.”</p>

<p>The chief winked at me, an athletic wink in which all his facial
muscles took part, and cast a little farther back:</p>

<p>“And you don’t know who called you up?”</p>

<p>“He wouldn’t tell me his name.”</p>

<p>“Didn’t recognize his voice?”</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>“What kind of voice was it?”</p>

<p>“He talked in an undertone, as if afraid of being overheard. I had difficulty
understanding him.”</p>

<p>“He whispered?” The chief’s mouth hung open as the last sound left
it. His greenish eyes sparkled greedily between their pads of fat.</p>

<p>“Yes, a hoarse whisper.”</p>

<p>The chief shut his mouth with a click, opened it again to say persuasively:</p>

<p>“You’ve heard Thaler talk.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.”</p>

<p>The woman started and stared big-eyed from the chief to me.</p>

<p>“It was he,” she cried. “It was he.”</p>

<hr/>

<p>Robert Albury, the young assistant cashier of the First National Bank, was
sitting in the lobby when I returned to the Great Western Hotel. We
went up to my room, had some ice-water brought, used its ice to put chill
in Scotch, lemon juice, and grenadine, and then went down to the dining
room.</p>

<p>“Now tell me about the lady,” I said when we were working on the
soup.</p>

<p>“Have you seen her yet?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Not yet.”</p>

<p>“But you’ve heard something about her?”</p>

<p>“Only that she’s an expert in her line.”</p>

<p>“She is,” he agreed. “I suppose you’ll see her. You’ll be disappointed
at first. Then, without being able to say how or when it happened, you’ll
find you’ve forgotten your disappointment, and the first thing you know
you’ll be telling her your life’s history, and all your troubles and hopes.”
He laughed with boyish shyness. “And then you’re caught, absolutely
caught.”</p>

<p>“Thanks for the warning. How’d you come by the information?”</p>

<p>He grinned shamefacedly across his suspended soup spoon and confessed:</p>

<p>“I bought it.”</p>

<p>“Then I suppose it cost you plenty. I hear she likes <i>dinero</i>.”</p>

<p>“She’s money-mad, all right, but somehow you don’t mind it. She’s
so thoroughly mercenary, so frankly greedy, that there’s nothing disagreeable
about it. You’ll understand what I mean when you know her.”</p>

<p>“Maybe. Mind telling me how you happened to part with her?”</p>

<p>“No, I don’t mind. I spent it all, that’s how.”</p>

<p>“Cold-blooded like that?”</p>

<p>His face flushed a little. He nodded.</p>

<p>“You seem to have taken it well,” I said.</p>

<p>“There was nothing else to do.” The flush in his pleasant young face
deepened and he spoke hesitantly. “It happens I owe her something for it.
She—I’m going to tell you this. I want you to see this side of her. I had a
little money. After that was gone—You must remember I was young and
head over heels. After my money was gone there was the bank’s. I had—You
don’t care whether I had actually done anything or was simply thinking
about it. Anyway, she found it out. I never could hide anything from
her. And that was the end.”</p>

<p>“She broke off with you?”</p>

<p>“Yes, thank God! If it hadn’t been for her you might be looking for
me now—for embezzlement. I owe her that!” He wrinkled his forehead
earnestly. “You won’t say anything about this—you know what I mean.
But I wanted you to know she has her good side too. You’ll hear enough
about the other.”</p>

<p>“Maybe she has. Or maybe it was just that she didn’t think she’d get
enough to pay for the risk of being caught in a jam.”</p>

<p>He turned this over in his mind and then shook his head.</p>

<p>“That may have had something to do with it, but not all.”</p>

<p>“I gathered she was strictly pay-as-you-enter.”</p>

<p>“How about Dan Rolff?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Who’s he?”</p>

<p>“He’s supposed to be her brother, or half-brother, or something of the
sort. He isn’t. He’s a down-and-outer—t. b. He lives with her. She keeps
him. She’s not in love with him or anything. She simply found him somewhere
and took him in.”</p>

<p>“Any more?”</p>

<p>“There was that radical chap she used to run around with. It’s not
likely she got much money out of him.”</p>

<p>“What radical chap?”</p>

<p>“He came here back during the strike—Quint is his name.”</p>

<p>“So he was on her list?”</p>

<p>“That’s supposed to be the reason he stayed here after the strike was
over.”</p>

<p>“So he’s still on her list?”</p>

<p>“No. She told me she was afraid of him. He had threatened to kill
her.”</p>

<p>“She seems to have had everybody on her string at one time or another,”
I said.</p>

<p>“Everybody she wanted,” he said, and he said it seriously.</p>

<p>“Donald Willsson was the latest?” I asked.</p>

<p>“I don’t know,” he said. “I had never heard anything about them,
had never seen anything. The chief of police had us try to find any checks
he may have issued to her before yesterday, but we found nothing. Nobody
could remember ever having seen any.”</p>

<p>“Who was her last customer, so far as you know?”</p>

<p>“Lately I’ve seen her around town quite often with a chap named
Thaler—he runs a couple of gambling houses here. They call him Whisper.
You’ve probably heard of him.”</p>

<hr/>

<p>At eight-thirty I left young Albury and set out for the Miner’s Hotel in
Forest Street. Half a block from the hotel I met Bill Quint.</p>

<p>“Hello!” I hailed him. “I was on my way down to see you.”</p>

<p>He stopped in front of me, looked me up and down, growled:</p>

<p>“So you’re a gum-shoe.”</p>

<p>“That’s the bunk,” I complained. “I come all the way down here to
rope you, and you’re smarted up.”</p>

<p>“What do you want to know now?” he asked.</p>

<p>“About Donald Willsson. You knew him, didn’t you?”</p>

<p>“I knew him.”</p>

<p>“Very well?”</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>“What did you think of him?”</p>

<p>He pursed his gray lips, by forcing breath between them made a noise
like a rag tearing, and said:</p>

<p>“A lousy liberal.”</p>

<p>“You know Dinah Brand?” I asked.</p>

<p>“I know her.” His neck was shorter and thicker than it had been.</p>

<p>“Think she killed Willsson?”</p>

<p>“Sure. It’s a kick in the pants.”</p>

<p>“Then you didn’t?”</p>

<p>“Hell, yes,” he said, “the pair of us together. Got any more questions?”</p>

<p>“Yeah, but I’ll save my breath. You’d only lie to me.”</p>

<p>I walked back to Broadway, found a taxi, and told the driver to take
me to 1232 Hurricane Street.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IV</h2><p epub:type="title">Hurricane Street</p></hgroup>

<p>My destination was a gray frame cottage. When I rang the
bell the door was opened by a thin man with a tired face that had no
color in it except a red spot the size of a half-dollar high on each cheek.
This, I thought, is the lunger Dan Rolff.</p>

<p>“I’d like to see Miss Brand,” I told him.</p>

<p>“What name shall I tell her?” His voice was a sick man’s and an educated
man’s.</p>

<p>“It wouldn’t mean anything to her. I want to see her about Willsson’s
death.”</p>

<p>He looked at me with level tired dark eyes and said:</p>

<p>“Yes?”</p>

<p>“I’m from the San Francisco office of the Continental Detective
Agency. We’re interested in the murder.”</p>

<p>“That’s nice of you,” he said ironically. “Come in.”</p>

<p>I went in, into a ground floor room where a young woman sat at a
table that had a lot of papers on it. Some of the papers were financial
service bulletins, stock and bond market forecasts. One was a racing chart.</p>

<p>The room was disorderly, cluttered up. There were too many pieces
of furniture in it, and none of them seemed to be in its proper place.</p>

<p>“Dinah,” the lunger introduced me, “this gentleman has come from
San Francisco on behalf of the Continental Detective Agency to inquire
into Mr. Donald Willsson’s demise.”</p>

<p>The young woman got up, kicked a couple of newspapers out of her
way, and came to me with one hand out.</p>

<p>She was an inch or two taller than I, which made her about five feet
eight. She had a broad-shouldered, full-breasted, round-hipped body and
big muscular legs. The hand she gave me was soft, warm, strong. Her face
was the face of a girl of twenty-five already showing signs of wear. Little
lines crossed the corners of her big ripe mouth. Fainter lines were beginning
to make nets around her thick-lashed eyes. They were large eyes, blue
and a bit bloodshot.</p>

<p>Her coarse hair—brown—needed trimming and was parted crookedly.
One side of her upper lip had been rouged higher than the other. Her
dress was of a particularly unbecoming wine color, and it gaped here and
there down one side, where she had neglected to snap the fasteners or
they had popped open. There was a run down the front of her left
stocking.</p>

<p>This was the Dinah Brand who took her pick of Poisonville’s men,
according to what I had been told.</p>

<p>“His father sent for you, of course,” she said while she moved a pair
of lizard-skin slippers and a cup and saucer off a chair to make room for
me.</p>

<p>Her voice was soft, lazy.</p>

<p>I told her the truth:</p>

<p>“Donald Willsson sent for me. I was waiting to see him while he was
being killed.”</p>

<p>“Don’t go away, Dan,” she called to Rolff.</p>

<p>He came back into the room. She returned to her place at the table.
He sat on the opposite side, leaning his thin face on a thin hand, looking
at me without interest.</p>

<p>She drew her brows together, making two creases between them, and
asked:</p>

<p>“You mean he knew someone meant to kill him?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know. He didn’t say what he wanted. Maybe just help in
the reform campaign.”</p>

<p>“But do you—?”</p>

<p>I made a complaint:</p>

<p>“It’s no fun being a sleuth when somebody steals your stuff, does all
the questioning.”</p>

<p>“I like to find out what’s going on,” she said, a little laugh gurgling
down in her throat.</p>

<p>“I’m that way too. For instance, I’d like to know why you made him
have the check certified.”</p>

<p>Very casually, Dan Rolff shifted in his chair, leaning back, lowering
his thin hands out of sight below the table’s edge.</p>

<p>“So you found out about that?” Dinah Brand asked. She crossed left
leg over right and looked down. Her eyes focused on the run in her stocking.
“Honest to God, I’m going to stop wearing them!” she complained.
“I’m going barefooted. I paid five bucks for these socks yesterday. Now
look at the damned things. Every day—runs, runs, runs!”</p>

<p>“It’s no secret,” I said. “I mean the check, not the runs. Noonan’s got
it.”</p>

<p>She looked at Rolff, who stopped watching me long enough to nod
once.</p>

<p>“If you talked my language,” she drawled, looking narrow-eyed at me,
“I might be able to give you some help.”</p>

<p>“Maybe if I knew what it was.”</p>

<p>“Money,” she explained, “the more the better. I like it.”</p>

<p>I became proverbial:</p>

<p>“Money saved is money earned. I can save you money and grief.”</p>

<p>“That doesn’t mean anything to me,” she said, “though it sounds like
it’s meant to.”</p>

<p>“The police haven’t asked you anything about the check?”</p>

<p>She shook her head, no.</p>

<p>I said:</p>

<p>“Noonan’s figuring on hanging the rap on you as well as on Whisper.”</p>

<p>“Don’t scare me,” she lisped. “I’m only a child.”</p>

<p>“Noonan knows that Thaler knew about the check. He knows that
Thaler came here while Willsson was here, but didn’t get in. He knows
that Thaler was hanging around the neighborhood when Willsson was
shot. He knows that Thaler and a woman were seen bending over the dead
man.”</p>

<p>The girl picked up a pencil from the table and thoughtfully scratched
her cheek with it. The pencil made little curly black lines over the rouge.</p>

<p>Rolff’s eyes had lost their weariness. They were bright, feverish, fixed
on mine. He leaned forward, but kept his hands out of sight below the
table.</p>

<p>“Those things,” he said, “concern Thaler, not Miss Brand.”</p>

<p>“Thaler and Miss Brand aren’t strangers,” I said. “Willsson brought
a five-thousand-dollar check here, and was killed leaving. That way, Miss
Brand might have had trouble cashing it—if Willsson hadn’t been
thoughtful enough to get it certified.”</p>

<p>“My God!” the girl protested, “if I’d been going to kill him I’d have
done it in here where nobody could have seen it, or waited until he got
out of sight of the house. What kind of a dumb onion do you take me
for?”</p>

<p>“I’m not sure you killed him,” I said. “I’m just sure that the fat chief
means to hang it on you.”</p>

<p>“What are you trying to do?” she asked.</p>

<p>“Learn who killed him. Not who could have or might have, but who
did.”</p>

<p>“I could give you some help,” she said, “but there’d have to be something
in it for me.”</p>

<p>“Safety,” I reminded her, but she shook her head.</p>

<p>“I mean it would have to get me something in a financial way. It’d be
worth something to you, and you ought to pay something, even if not a
fortune.”</p>

<p>“Can’t be done.” I grinned at her. “Forget the bank roll and go in for
charity. Pretend I’m Bill Quint.”</p>

<p>Dan Rolff started up from his chair, lips white as the rest of his face.
He sat down again when the girl laughed—a lazy, good-natured laugh.</p>

<p>“He thinks I didn’t make any profit out of Bill, Dan.” She leaned
over and put a hand on my knee. “Suppose you knew far enough ahead
that a company’s employes were going to strike, and when, and then far
enough ahead when they were going to call the strike off. Could you take
that info and some capital to the stock market and do yourself some good
playing with the company’s stock? You bet you could!” she wound up
triumphantly. “So don’t go around thinking that Bill didn’t pay his way.”</p>

<p>“You’ve been spoiled,” I said.</p>

<p>“What in the name of God’s the use of being so tight?” she demanded.
“It’s not like it had to come out of your pocket. You’ve got an
expense account, haven’t you?”</p>

<p>I didn’t say anything. She frowned at me, at the run in her stocking,
and at Rolff. Then she said to him:</p>

<p>“Maybe he’d loosen up if he had a drink.”</p>

<p>The thin man got up and went out of the room.</p>

<p>She pouted at me, prodded my shin with her toe, and said:</p>

<p>“It’s not so much the money. It’s the principle of the thing. If a
girl’s got something that’s worth something to somebody, she’s a boob if
she doesn’t collect.”</p>

<p>I grinned.</p>

<p>“Why don’t you be a good guy?” she begged.</p>

<p>Dan Rolff came in with a siphon, a bottle of gin, some lemons, and a
bowl of cracked ice. We had a drink apiece. The lunger went away. The
girl and I wrangled over the money question while we had more drinks.
I kept trying to keep the conversation on Thaler and Willsson. She kept
switching it to the money she deserved. It went on that way until the gin
bottle was empty. My watch said one-fifteen.</p>

<p>She chewed a piece of lemon peel and said for the thirtieth or fortieth
time:</p>

<p>“It won’t come out of your pocket. What do you care?”</p>

<p>“It’s not the money,” I said, “it’s the principle of the thing.”</p>

<p>She made a face at me and put her glass where she thought the table
was. She was eight inches wrong. I don’t remember if the glass broke when
it hit the floor, or what happened to it. I do remember that I was encouraged
by her missing the table.</p>

<p>“Another thing,” I opened up a new argumentative line, “I’m not
sure I really need whatever you can tell me. If I have to get along without
it, I think I can.”</p>

<p>“It’ll be nice if you can, but don’t forget I’m the last person who saw
him alive, except whoever killed him.”</p>

<p>“Wrong,” I said. “His wife saw him come out, walk away, and fall.”</p>

<p>“His wife!”</p>

<p>“She was sitting in a coupé down the street.”</p>

<p>“How did she know he was here?”</p>

<p>“She says Thaler phoned her that her husband had come here with
the check.”</p>

<p>“You’re trying to kid me,” the girl said. “Max couldn’t have known
it.”</p>

<p>“I’m telling you what Mrs. Willsson told Noonan and me.”</p>

<p>The girl spit what was left of the lemon peel out on the floor, further
disarranged her hair by running her fingers through it, wiped her mouth
with the back of her hand, and slapped the table.</p>

<p>“All right, Mr. Knowitall,” she said, “I’m going to play with you.
You can think it’s not going to cost you anything, but I’ll get mine before
we’re through. You think I won’t?” she challenged me, peering at me as
if I were a block away.</p>

<p>This was no time to revive the money argument, so I said: “I hope
you do.” I think I said it three or four times, quite earnestly.</p>

<p>“I will. Now listen to me. You’re drunk, and I’m drunk, and I’m just
exactly drunk enough to tell you anything you want to know. That’s the
kind of girl I am. If I like a person I’ll tell them anything they want to
know. Just ask me. Go ahead, ask me.”</p>

<p>I did:</p>

<p>“What did Willsson give you five thousand dollars for?”</p>

<p>“For fun.” She leaned back to laugh. Then: “Listen. He was hunting
for scandal. I had some of it, some affidavits and things that I thought
might be good for a piece of change some day. I’m a girl that likes to pick
up a little jack when she can. So I had put these things away. When
Donald began going after scalps I let him know that I had these things,
and that they were for sale. I gave him enough of a peep at them to let
him know they were good. And they were good. Then we talked how much.
He wasn’t as tight as you—nobody ever was—but he was a little bit close.
So the bargain hung fire, till yesterday.</p>

<p>“Then I gave him the rush, phoned him and told him I had another
customer for the stuff and that if he wanted it he’d have to show up that
night with either five thousand smacks in cash or a certified check. That
was hooey, but he hadn’t been around much, so he fell for it.”</p>

<p>“Why ten o’clock?” I asked.</p>

<p>“Why not? That’s as good a time as any other. The main thing on a
deal like that is to give them a definite time. Now you want to know why
it had to be cash or a certified check? All right, I’ll tell you. I’ll tell you
anything you want to know. That’s the kind of girl I am. Always was.”</p>

<p>She went on that way for five minutes, telling me in detail just which
and what sort of a girl she was, and always had been, and why. I yes-yes’d
her until I got a chance to cut in with:</p>

<p>“All right, now why did it have to be a certified check?”</p>

<p>She shut one eye, waggled a forefinger at me, and said:</p>

<p>“So he couldn’t stop payment. Because he couldn’t have used the
stuff I sold him. It was good, all right. It was too good. It would have put
his old man in jail with the rest of them. It would have nailed Papa Elihu
tighter than anyone else.”</p>

<p>I laughed with her while I tried to keep my head above the gin I had
guzzled.</p>

<p>“Who else would it nail?” I asked.</p>

<p>“The whole damned lot of them.” She waved a hand. “Max, Lew
Yard, Pete, Noonan, and Elihu Willsson—the whole damned lot of
them.”</p>

<p>“Did Max Thaler know what you were doing?”</p>

<p>“Of course not—nobody but Donald Willsson.”</p>

<p>“Sure of that?”</p>

<p>“Sure I’m sure. You don’t think I was going around bragging about it
ahead of time, do you?”</p>

<p>“Who do you think knows about it now?”</p>

<p>“I don’t care,” she said. “It was only a joke on him. He couldn’t have
used the stuff.”</p>

<p>“Do you think the birds whose secrets you sold will see anything
funny in it? Noonan’s trying to hang the killing on you and Thaler. That
means he found the stuff in Donald Willsson’s pocket. They all thought
old Elihu was using his son to break them, didn’t they?”</p>

<p>“Yes, sir,” she said, “and I’m one who thinks the same thing.”</p>

<p>“You’re probably wrong, but that doesn’t matter. If Noonan found
the things you sold Donald Willsson in his pocket, and learned you had
sold them to him, why shouldn’t he add that up to mean that you and
your friend Thaler had gone over to old Elihu’s side?”</p>

<p>“He can see that old Elihu would be hurt as much as anybody else.”</p>

<p>“What was this junk you sold him?”</p>

<p>“They built a new City Hall three years ago,” she said, “and none
of them lost any money on it. If Noonan got the papers he’ll pretty soon
find out that they tied as much on old Elihu, or more, than on anybody
else.”</p>

<p>“That doesn’t make any difference. He’ll take it for granted that the
old man had found an out for himself. Take my word for it, sister, Noonan
and his friends think you and Thaler and Elihu are double-crossing them.”</p>

<p>“I don’t give a damn what they think,” she said obstinately. “It
was only a joke. That’s all I meant it for. That’s all it was.”</p>

<p>“That’s good,” I growled. “You can go to the gallows with a clear
conscience. Have you seen Thaler since the murder?”</p>

<p>“No, but Max didn’t kill him, if that’s what you think, even if he
was around.”</p>

<p>“Why?”</p>

<p>“Lots of reasons. First place, Max wouldn’t have done it himself.
He’d have had somebody else do it, and he’d have been way off with an
alibi nobody could shake. Second place, Max carries a .38, and anybody
he sent to do the job would have had that much gun or more. What kind
of a gunman would use a .32?”</p>

<p>“Then who did it?”</p>

<p>“I’ve told you all I know,” she said. “I’ve told you too much.”</p>

<p>I stood up and said:</p>

<p>“No, you’ve told me just exactly enough.”</p>

<p>“You mean you think you know who killed him?”</p>

<p>“Yeah, though there’s a couple of things I’ll have to cover before I
make the pinch.”</p>

<p>“Who? Who?” She stood up, suddenly almost sober, tugging at my
lapels. “Tell me who did it.”</p>

<p>“Not now.”</p>

<p>“Be a good guy.”</p>

<p>“Not now.”</p>

<p>She let go my lapels, put her hands behind her, and laughed in my
face.</p>

<p>“All right. Keep it to yourself—and try to figure out which part of
what I told you is the truth.”</p>

<p>I said:</p>

<p>“Thanks for the part that is, anyhow, and for the gin. And if Max
Thaler means anything to you, you ought to pass him the word that
Noonan’s trying to rib him.”</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">V</h2><p epub:type="title">Old Elihu Talks Sense</p></hgroup>

<p>It was close to two-thirty in the morning when I reached the
hotel. With my key the night clerk gave me a memorandum that asked
me to call Poplar 605. I knew the number. It was Elihu Willsson’s.</p>

<p>“When did this come?” I asked the clerk.</p>

<p>“A little after one.”</p>

<p>That sounded urgent. I went back to a booth and put in the call.
The old man’s secretary answered, asking me to come out at once. I
promised to hurry, asked the clerk to get me a taxi, and went up to my
room for a shot of Scotch.</p>

<p>I would rather have been cold sober, but I wasn’t. If the night held
more work for me I didn’t want to go to it with alcohol dying in me. The
snifter revived me a lot. I poured more of the King George into a flask,
pocketed it, and went down to the taxi.</p>

<p>Elihu Willsson’s house was lighted from top to bottom. The secretary
opened the front door before I could get my finger on the button. His
thin body was shivering in pale blue pajamas and dark blue bathrobe.
His thin face was full of excitement.</p>

<p>“Hurry!” he said. “Mr. Willsson is waiting. And, please, will you try
to persuade him to let us have the body removed?”</p>

<p>I promised and followed him up to the old man’s bedroom.</p>

<p>Old Elihu was in bed as before, but now a black automatic pistol lay
on the covers close to one of his pink hands.</p>

<p>As soon as I appeared he took his head off the pillows, sat upright
and barked at me:</p>

<p>“Have you got as much guts as you’ve got gall?”</p>

<p>His face was an unhealthy dark red. The film was gone from his eyes.
They were hard and hot.</p>

<p>I let his question wait while I looked at the corpse on the floor between
door and bed.</p>

<p>A short thick-set man in brown lay on his back with dead eyes staring
at the ceiling from under the visor of a gray cap. A piece of his jaw had
been knocked off. His chin was tilted to show where another bullet had
gone through tie and collar to make a hole in his neck. One arm was bent
under him. The other hand held a blackjack as big as a milk bottle. There
was a lot of blood.</p>

<p>I looked up from this mess to the old man. His grin was vicious and
idiotic.</p>

<p>“You’re a great talker,” he said. “I know that. A two-fisted, you-be-damned
man with your words. But have you got anything else? Have you
got the guts to match your gall? Or is it just the language you’ve got?”</p>

<p>There was no use in trying to get along with the old boy. I scowled
and reminded him:</p>

<p>“Didn’t I tell you not to bother me unless you wanted to talk sense
for a change?”</p>

<p>“You did, my lad.” There was a foolish sort of triumph in his voice.
“And I’ll talk you your sense. I want a man to clean this pig-sty of a Poisonville
for me, to smoke out the rats, little and big. It’s a man’s job. Are
you a man?”</p>

<p>“What’s the use of getting poetic about it?” I growled. “If you’ve got
a fairly honest piece of work to be done in my line, and you want to pay a
decent price, maybe I’ll take it on. But a lot of foolishness about smoking
rats and pig-pens doesn’t mean anything to me.”</p>

<p>“All right. I want Personville emptied of its crooks and grafters. Is
that plain enough language for you?”</p>

<p>“You didn’t want it this morning,” I said. “Why do you want it
now?”</p>

<p>The explanation was profane and lengthy and given to me in a loud
and blustering voice. The substance of it was that he had built Personville
brick by brick with his own hands and he was going to keep it or
wipe it off the side of the hill. Nobody could threaten him in his own city,
no matter who they were. He had let them alone, but when they started
telling him, Elihu Willsson, what he had to do and what he couldn’t do,
he would show them who was who. He brought the speech to an end by
pointing at the corpse and boasting:</p>

<p>“That’ll show them there’s still a sting in the old man.”</p>

<p>I wished I were sober. His clowning puzzled me. I couldn’t put my
finger on the something behind it.</p>

<p>“Your playmates sent him?” I asked, nodding at the dead man.</p>

<p>“I only talked to him with this,” he said, patting the automatic on
the bed, “but I reckon they did.”</p>

<p>“How did it happen?”</p>

<p>“It happened simple enough. I heard the door opening, and I
switched on the light, and there he was, and I shot him, and there he is.”</p>

<p>“What time?”</p>

<p>“It was about one o’clock.”</p>

<p>“And you’ve let him lie there all this time?”</p>

<p>“That I have.” The old man laughed savagely and began blustering
again: “Does the sight of a dead man turn your stomach? Or is it his
spirit you’re afraid of?”</p>

<p>I laughed at him. Now I had it. The old boy was scared stiff. Fright
was the something behind his clowning. That was why he blustered, and
why he wouldn’t let them take the body away. He wanted it there to look
at, to keep panic away, visible proof of his ability to defend himself. I
knew where I stood.</p>

<p>“You really want the town cleaned up?” I asked.</p>

<p>“I said I did and I do.”</p>

<p>“I’d have to have a free hand—no favors to anybody—run the job as I
pleased. And I’d have to have a ten-thousand-dollar retainer.”</p>

<p>“Ten thousand dollars! Why in hell should I give that much to a
man I don’t know from Adam? A man who’s done nothing I know of but
talk?”</p>

<p>“Be serious. When I say <i>me</i>, I mean the Continental. You know
them.”</p>

<p>“I do. And they know me. And they ought to know I’m good for—”</p>

<p>“That’s not the idea. These people you want taken to the cleaners
were friends of yours yesterday. Maybe they will be friends again next
week. I don’t care about that. But I’m not playing politics for you. I’m
not hiring out to help you kick them back in line—with the job being
called off then. If you want the job done you’ll plank down enough money
to pay for a complete job. Any that’s left over will be returned to you. But
you’re going to get a complete job or nothing. That’s the way it’ll have to
be. Take it or leave it.”</p>

<p>“I’ll damned well leave it,” he bawled.</p>

<p>He let me get half-way down the stairs before he called me back.</p>

<p>“I’m an old man,” he grumbled. “If I was ten years younger—” He
glared at me and worked his lips together. “I’ll give you your damned
check.”</p>

<p>“And authority to go through with it in my own way?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“We’ll get it done now. Where’s your secretary?”</p>

<p>Willsson pushed a button on his bedside table and the silent secretary
appeared from wherever he had been hiding. I told him:</p>

<p>“Mr. Willsson wants to issue a ten-thousand-dollar check to the
Continental Detective Agency, and he wants to write the Agency—San
Francisco branch—a letter authorizing the Agency to use the ten thousand
dollars investigating crime and political corruption in Personville. The
letter is to state clearly that the Agency is to conduct the investigation as
it sees fit.”</p>

<p>The secretary looked questioningly at the old man, who frowned and
ducked his round white head.</p>

<p>“But first,” I told the secretary as he glided toward the door, “you’d
better phone the police that we’ve got a dead burglar here. Then call
Mr. Willsson’s doctor.”</p>

<p>The old man declared he didn’t want any damned doctors.</p>

<p>“You’re going to have a nice shot in the arm so you can sleep,” I
promised him, stepping over the corpse to take the black gun from the
bed. “I’m going to stay here tonight and we’ll spend most of tomorrow
sifting Poisonville affairs.”</p>

<p>The old man was tired. His voice, when he profanely and somewhat
long-windedly told me what he thought of my impudence in deciding
what was best for him, barely shook the windows.</p>

<p>I took off the dead man’s cap for a better look at his face. It didn’t
mean anything to me. I put the cap back in place.</p>

<p>When I straightened up the old man asked, moderately:</p>

<p>“Are you getting anywhere in your hunt for Donald’s murderer?”</p>

<p>“I think so. Another day ought to see it finished.”</p>

<p>“Who?” he asked.</p>

<p>The secretary came in with the letter and the check. I gave them to
the old man instead of an answer to his question. He put a shaky signature
on each, and I had them folded in my pocket when the police
arrived.</p>

<hr/>

<p>The first copper into the room was the chief himself, fat Noonan. He
nodded amiably at Willsson, shook hands with me, and looked with
twinkling greenish eyes at the dead man.</p>

<p>“Well, well,” he said. “It’s a good job he did, whoever did it. Yakima
Shorty. And will you look at the sap he’s toting?” He kicked the blackjack
out of the dead man’s hand. “Big enough to sink a battleship. You drop
him?” he asked me.</p>

<p>“Mr. Willsson.”</p>

<p>“Well, that certainly is fine,” he congratulated the old man. “You
saved a lot of people a lot of troubles, including me. Pack him out, boys,”
he said to the four men behind him.</p>

<p>The two in uniform picked Yakima Shorty up by legs and arm-pits
and went away with him, while one of the others gathered up the blackjack
and a flashlight that had been under the body.</p>

<p>“If everybody did that to their prowlers, it would certainly be fine,”
the chief babbled on. He brought three cigars out of a pocket, threw one
over on the bed, stuck one at me, and put the other in his mouth. “I
was just wondering where I could get hold of you,” he told me as we
lighted up. “I got a little job ahead that I thought you’d like to be in on.
That’s how I happened to be on tap when the rumble came.” He put his
mouth close to my ear and whispered: “Going to pick up Whisper. Want
to go along?”</p>

<p>“Yeah.”</p>

<p>“I thought you would. Hello, Doc!”</p>

<p>He shook hands with a man who had just come in, a little plump
man with a tired oval face and gray eyes that still had sleep in them.</p>

<p>The doctor went to the bed, where one of Noonan’s men was asking
Willsson about the shooting. I followed the secretary into the hall and
asked him:</p>

<p>“Any men in the house besides you?”</p>

<p>“Yes, the chauffeur, the Chinese cook.”</p>

<p>“Let the chauffeur stay in the old man’s room tonight. I’m going out
with Noonan. I’ll get back as soon as I can. I don’t think there’ll be any
more excitement here, but no matter what happens don’t leave the old
man alone. And don’t leave him alone with Noonan or any of Noonan’s
crew.”</p>

<p>The secretary’s mouth and eyes popped wide.</p>

<p>“What time did you leave Donald Willsson last night?” I asked.</p>

<p>“You mean night before last, the night he was killed?”</p>

<p>“Yeah.”</p>

<p>“At precisely half-past nine.”</p>

<p>“You were with him from five o’clock till then?”</p>

<p>“From a quarter after five. We went over some statements and that
sort of thing in his office until nearly eight o’clock. Then we went to
Bayard’s and finished our business over our dinners. He left at half-past
nine, saying he had an engagement.”</p>

<p>“What else did he say about this engagement?”</p>

<p>“Nothing else.”</p>

<p>“Didn’t give you any hint of where he was going, who he was going
to meet?”</p>

<p>“He merely said he had an engagement.”</p>

<p>“And you didn’t know anything about it?”</p>

<p>“No. Why? Did you think I did?”</p>

<p>“I thought he might have said something.” I switched back to tonight’s
doings: “What visitors did Willsson have today, not counting the
one he shot?”</p>

<p>“You’ll have to pardon me,” the secretary said, smiling apologetically,
“I can’t tell you that without Mr. Willsson’s permission. I’m sorry.”</p>

<p>“Weren’t some of the local powers here? Say Lew Yard, or—”</p>

<p>The secretary shook his head, repeating:</p>

<p>“I’m sorry.”</p>

<p>“We won’t fight over it,” I said, giving it up and starting back toward
the bedroom door.</p>

<p>The doctor came out, buttoning his overcoat.</p>

<p>“He will sleep now,” he said hurriedly. “Someone should stay with
him. I shall be in in the morning.” He ran downstairs.</p>

<p>I went into the bedroom. The chief and the man who had questioned
Willsson were standing by the bed. The chief grinned as if he were glad
to see me. The other man scowled. Willsson was lying on his back, staring
at the ceiling.</p>

<p>“That’s about all there is here,” Noonan said. “What say we mosey
along?”</p>

<p>I agreed and said, “Good-night,” to the old man. He said, “Good-night,”
without looking at me. The secretary came in with the chauffeur, a
tall sunburned young husky.</p>

<p>The chief, the other sleuth—a police lieutenant named McGraw—and
I went downstairs and got into the chief’s car. McGraw sat beside the
driver. The chief and I sat in back.</p>

<p>“We’ll make the pinch along about daylight,” Noonan explained as
we rode. “Whisper’s got a joint over on King Street. He generally leaves
there along about daylight. We could crash the place, but that’d mean
gun-play, and it’s just as well to take it easy. We’ll pick him up when he
leaves.”</p>

<p>I wondered if he meant pick him up or pick him off. I asked:</p>

<p>“Got enough on him to make the rap stick?”</p>

<p>“Enough?” He laughed good-naturedly. “If what the Willsson dame
give us ain’t enough to stretch him I’m a pickpocket.”</p>

<p>I thought of a couple of wisecrack answers to that. I kept them to
myself.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VI</h2><p epub:type="title">Whisper’s Joint</p></hgroup>

<p>Our ride ended under a line of trees in a dark street not far
from the center of town. We got out of the car and walked down to the
corner.</p>

<p>A burly man in a gray overcoat, with a gray hat pulled down over his
eyes, came to meet us.</p>

<p>“Whisper’s hep,” the burly man told the chief. “He phoned Donohoe
that he’s going to stay in his joint. If you think you can pull him out, try
it, he says.”</p>

<p>Noonan chuckled, scratched an ear, and asked pleasantly:</p>

<p>“How many would you say was in there with him?”</p>

<p>“Fifty, anyhow.”</p>

<p>“Aw, now! There wouldn’t be that many, not at this time of morning.”</p>

<p>“The hell there wouldn’t,” the burly man snarled. “They been drifting
in since midnight.”</p>

<p>“Is that so? A leak somewheres. Maybe you oughtn’t to have let
them in.”</p>

<p>“Maybe I oughtn’t.” The burly man was angry. “But I did what you
told me. You said let anybody go in or out that wanted to, but when
Whisper showed to—”</p>

<p>“To pinch him,” the chief said.</p>

<p>“Well, yes,” the burly man agreed, looking savagely at me.</p>

<p>More men joined us and we held a talk-fest. Everybody was in a bad
humor except the chief. He seemed to enjoy it all. I didn’t know why.</p>

<p>Whisper’s joint was a three-story brick building in the middle of the
block, between two two-story buildings. The ground floor of his joint was
occupied by a cigar store that served as entrance and cover for the gambling
establishment upstairs. Inside, if the burly man’s information was to
be depended on, Whisper had collected half a hundred friends, loaded
for a fight. Outside, Noonan’s force was spread around the building, in
the street in front, in the alley in back, and on the adjoining roofs.</p>

<p>“Well, boys,” the chief said amiably after everybody had had his say,
“I don’t reckon Whisper wants trouble any more than we do, or he’d have
tried to shoot his way out before this, if he’s got that many with him,
though I don’t mind saying I don’t think he has—not that many.”</p>

<p>The burly man said: “The hell he ain’t.”</p>

<p>“So if he don’t want trouble,” Noonan went on, “maybe talking
might do some good. You run over, Nick, and see if you can’t argue him
into being peaceable.”</p>

<p>The burly man said: “The hell I will.”</p>

<p>“Phone him, then,” the chief suggested.</p>

<p>The burly man growled: “That’s more like it,” and went away.</p>

<p>When he came back he looked completely satisfied.</p>

<p>“He says,” he reported, “ ‘Go to hell.’ ”</p>

<p>“Get the rest of the boys down here,” Noonan said cheerfully.
“We’ll knock it over as soon as it gets light.”</p>

<p>The burly Nick and I went around with the chief while he made
sure his men were properly placed. I didn’t think much of them—a shabby,
shifty-eyed crew without enthusiasm for the job ahead of them.</p>

<p>The sky became a faded gray. The chief, Nick, and I stopped in a
plumber’s doorway diagonally across the street from our target.</p>

<p>Whisper’s joint was dark, the upper windows blank, blinds down
over cigar store windows and door.</p>

<p>“I hate to start this without giving Whisper a chance,” Noonan said.
“He’s not a bad kid. But there’s no use me trying to talk to him. He never
did like me much.”</p>

<p>He looked at me. I said nothing.</p>

<p>“You wouldn’t want to make a stab at it?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Yeah, I’ll try it.”</p>

<p>“That’s fine of you. I’ll certainly appreciate it if you will. You just
see if you can talk him into coming along without any fuss. You know
what to say—for his own good and all that, like it is.”</p>

<p>“Yeah,” I said and walked across to the cigar store, taking pains to
let my hands be seen swinging empty at my sides.</p>

<p>Day was still a little way off. The street was the color of smoke. My
feet made a lot of noise on the pavement.</p>

<p>I stopped in front of the door and knocked the glass with a knuckle,
not heavily. The green blind down inside the door made a mirror of the
glass. In it I saw two men moving up the other side of the street.</p>

<p>No sound came from inside. I knocked harder, then slid my hand
down to rattle the knob.</p>

<p>Advice came from indoors:</p>

<p>“Get away from there while you’re able.”</p>

<p>It was a muffled voice, but not a whisper, so probably not Whisper’s.</p>

<p>“I want to talk to Thaler,” I said.</p>

<p>“Go talk to the lard-can that sent you.”</p>

<p>“I’m not talking for Noonan. Is Thaler where he can hear me?”</p>

<p>A pause. Then the muffled voice said: “Yes.”</p>

<p>“I’m the Continental op who tipped Dinah Brand off that Noonan
was framing you,” I said. “I want five minutes’ talk with you. I’ve got
nothing to do with Noonan except to queer his racket. I’m alone. I’ll drop
my rod in the street if you say so. Let me in.”</p>

<p>I waited. It depended on whether the girl had got to him with the
story of my interview with her. I waited what seemed a long time.</p>

<p>The muffled voice said:</p>

<p>“When we open, come in quick. And no stunts.”</p>

<p>“All set.”</p>

<p>The latch clicked. I plunged in with the door.</p>

<p>Across the street a dozen guns emptied themselves. Glass shot from
door and windows tinkled around us.</p>

<p>Somebody tripped me. Fear gave me three brains and half a dozen
eyes. I was in a tough spot. Noonan had slipped me a pretty dose. These
birds couldn’t help thinking I was playing his game.</p>

<p>I tumbled down, twisting around to face the door. My gun was in my
hand by the time I hit the floor.</p>

<p>Across the street, burly Nick had stepped out of a doorway to pump
slugs at us with both hands.</p>

<p>I steadied my gun-arm on the floor. Nick’s body showed over the
front sight. I squeezed the gun. Nick stopped shooting. He crossed his
guns on his chest and went down in a pile on the sidewalk.</p>

<p>Hands on my ankles dragged me back. The floor scraped pieces off
my chin. The door slammed shut. Some comedian said:</p>

<p>“Uh-huh, people don’t like you.”</p>

<p>I sat up and shouted through the racket:</p>

<p>“I wasn’t in on this.”</p>

<p>The shooting dwindled, stopped. Door and window blinds were
dotted with gray holes. A husky whisper said in the darkness:</p>

<p>“Tod, you and Slats keep an eye on things down here. The rest of us
might as well go upstairs.”</p>

<p>We went through a room behind the store, into a passageway, up a
flight of carpeted steps, and into a second-story room that held a green
table banked for crap-shooting. It was a small room, had no windows, and
the lights were on.</p>

<p>There were five of us. Thaler sat down and lit a cigarette, a small
dark young man with a face that was pretty in a chorusman way until you
took another look at the thin hard mouth. An angular blond kid of no
more than twenty in tweeds sprawled on his back on a couch and blew
cigarette smoke at the ceiling. Another boy, as blond and as young, but
not so angular, was busy straightening his scarlet tie, smoothing his
yellow hair. A thin-faced man of thirty with little or no chin under a
wide loose mouth wandered up and down the room looking bored and
humming <i>Rosy Cheeks</i>.</p>

<p>I sat in a chair two or three feet from Thaler’s.</p>

<p>“How long is Noonan going to keep this up?” he asked. There was
no emotion in his hoarse whispering voice, only a shade of annoyance.</p>

<p>“He’s after you this trip,” I said. “I think he’s going through with it.”</p>

<p>The gambler smiled a thin, contemptuous smile.</p>

<p>“He ought to know what a swell chance he’s got of hanging a one-legged
rap like that on me.”</p>

<p>“He’s not figuring on proving anything in court,” I said.</p>

<p>“No?”</p>

<p>“You’re to be knocked off resisting arrest, or trying to make a get-away.
He won’t need much of a case after that.”</p>

<p>“He’s getting tough in his old age.” The thin lips curved in another
smile. He didn’t seem to think much of the fat chief’s deadliness. “Any
time he rubs me out I deserve rubbing. What’s he got against you?”</p>

<p>“He’s guessed I’m going to make a nuisance of myself.”</p>

<p>“Too bad. Dinah told me you were a pretty good guy, except kind
of Scotch with the roll.”</p>

<p>“I had a nice visit. Will you tell me what you know about Donald
Willsson’s killing?”</p>

<p>“His wife plugged him.”</p>

<p>“You saw her?”</p>

<p>“I saw her the next second—with the gat in her hand.”</p>

<p>“That’s no good to either of us,” I said. “I don’t know how far you’ve
got it cooked. Rigged right, you could make it stick in court, maybe, but
you’ll not get a chance to make your play there. If Noonan takes you at
all he’ll take you stiff. Give me the straight of it. I only need that to pop
the job.”</p>

<p>He dropped his cigarette on the floor, mashed it under his foot, and
asked:</p>

<p>“You that hot?”</p>

<p>“Give me your slant on it and I’m ready to make the pinch—if I can
get out of here.”</p>

<p>He lit another cigarette and asked:</p>

<p>“Mrs. Willsson said it was me that phoned her?”</p>

<p>“Yeah—after Noonan had persuaded her. She believes it now—maybe.”</p>

<p>“You dropped Big Nick,” he said. “I’ll take a chance on you. A man
phoned me that night. I don’t know him, don’t know who he was. He
said Willsson had gone to Dinah’s with a check for five grand. What the
hell did I care? But, see, it was funny somebody I didn’t know cracked it
to me. So I went around. Dan stalled me away from the door. That was all
right. But still it was funny as hell that guy phoned me.</p>

<p>“I went up the street and took a plant in a vestibule. I saw Mrs.
Willsson’s heap standing in the street, but I didn’t know then that it was
hers or that she was in it. He came out pretty soon and walked down the
street. I didn’t see the shots. I heard them. Then this woman jumps out
of the heap and runs over to him. I knew she hadn’t done the shooting. I
ought to have beat it. But it was all funny as hell, so when I saw the
woman was Willsson’s wife I went over to them, trying to find out what it
was all about. That was a break, see? So I had to make an out for myself,
in case something slipped. I strung the woman. That’s the whole damned
works—on the level.”</p>

<p>“Thanks,” I said. “That’s what I came for. Now the trick is to get out
of here without being mowed down.”</p>

<p>“No trick at all,” Thaler assured me. “We go any time we want to.”</p>

<p>“I want to now. If I were you, I’d go too. You’ve got Noonan pegged
as a false-alarm, but why take a chance? Make the sneak and keep under
cover till noon, and his frame-up will be a wash-out.”</p>

<p>Thaler put his hand in his pants pocket and brought out a fat roll of
paper money. He counted off a hundred or two, some fifties, twenties,
tens, and held them out to the chinless man, saying:</p>

<p>“Buy us a get-away, Jerry, and you don’t have to give anybody any
more dough than he’s used to.”</p>

<p>Jerry took the money, picked up a hat from the table, and strolled
out. Half an hour later he returned and gave some of the bills back to
Thaler, saying casually:</p>

<p>“We wait in the kitchen till we get the office.”</p>

<p>We went down to the kitchen. It was dark there. More men joined
us.</p>

<p>Presently something hit the door.</p>

<p>Jerry opened the door and we went down three steps into the back
yard. It was almost full daylight. There were ten of us in the party.</p>

<p>“This all?” I asked Thaler.</p>

<p>He nodded.</p>

<p>“Nick said there were fifty of you.”</p>

<p>“Fifty of us to stand off that crummy force!” he sneered.</p>

<p>A uniformed copper held the back gate open, muttering nervously:</p>

<p>“Hurry it up, boys, please.”</p>

<p>I was willing to hurry, but nobody else paid any attention to him.</p>

<p>We crossed an alley, were beckoned through another gate by a big
man in brown, passed through a house, out into the next street, and
climbed into a black automobile that stood at the curb.</p>

<p>One of the blond boys drove. He knew what speed was.</p>

<p>I said I wanted to be dropped off somewhere in the neighborhood of
the Great Western Hotel. The driver looked at Whisper, who nodded.
Five minutes later I got out in front of my hotel.</p>

<p>“See you later,” the gambler whispered, and the car slid away.</p>

<p>The last I saw of it was its police department license plate vanishing
around a corner.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VII</h2><p epub:type="title">That’s Why I Sewed You Up</p></hgroup>

<p>It was half-past five. I walked around a few blocks until I
came to an unlighted electric sign that said <i>Hotel Crawford</i>, climbed a
flight of steps to the second floor office, registered, left a call for ten
o’clock, was shown into a shabby room, moved some of the Scotch from
my flask to my stomach, and took old Elihu’s ten-thousand-dollar check
and my gun to bed with me.</p>

<p>At ten I dressed, went up to the First National Bank, found young
Albury, and asked him to certify Willsson’s check for me. He kept me
waiting a while. I suppose he phoned the old man’s residence to find out
if the check was on the up-and-up. Finally he brought it back to me,
properly scribbled on.</p>

<p>I sponged an envelope, put the old man’s letter and check in it, addressed
it to the Agency in San Francisco, stuck a stamp on it, and went
out and dropped it in the mail-box on the corner.</p>

<p>Then I returned to the bank and said to the boy:</p>

<p>“Now tell me why you killed him.”</p>

<p>He smiled and asked:</p>

<p>“Cock Robin or President Lincoln?”</p>

<p>“You’re not going to admit off-hand that you killed Donald Willsson?”</p>

<p>“I don’t want to be disagreeable,” he said, still smiling, “but I’d
rather not.”</p>

<p>“That’s going to make it bad,” I complained. “We can’t stand here
and argue very long without being interrupted. Who’s the stout party
with cheaters coming this way?”</p>

<p>The boy’s face pinkened. He said:</p>

<p>“Mr. Dritton, the cashier.”</p>

<p>“Introduce me.”</p>

<p>The boy looked uncomfortable, but he called the cashier’s name.
Dritton—a large man with a smooth pink face, a fringe of white hair
around an otherwise bald pink head, and rimless nose glasses—came over
to us.</p>

<p>The assistant cashier mumbled the introductions. I shook Dritton’s
hand without losing sight of the boy.</p>

<p>“I was just saying,” I addressed Dritton, “that we ought to have a
more private place to talk in. He probably won’t confess till I’ve worked
on him a while, and I don’t want everybody in the bank to hear me yelling
at him.”</p>

<p>“Confess?” The cashier’s tongue showed between his lips.</p>

<p>“Sure.” I kept my face, voice and manner bland, mimicking Noonan.
“Didn’t you know that Albury is the fellow who killed Donald Willsson?”</p>

<p>A polite smile at what he thought an asinine joke started behind the
cashier’s glasses, and changed to puzzlement when he looked at his assistant.
The boy was rouge-red and the grin he was forcing his mouth to wear
was a terrible thing.</p>

<p>Dritton cleared his throat and said heartily:</p>

<p>“It’s a splendid morning. We’ve been having splendid weather.”</p>

<p>“But isn’t there a private room where we can talk?” I insisted.</p>

<p>Dritton jumped nervously and questioned the boy:</p>

<p>“What—what is this?”</p>

<p>Young Albury said something nobody could have understood.</p>

<p>I said: “If there isn’t I’ll have to take him down to the City Hall.”</p>

<p>Dritton caught his glasses as they slid down his nose, jammed them
back in place and said:</p>

<p>“Come back here.”</p>

<p>We followed him down the length of the lobby, through a gate, and
into an office whose door was labeled <i>President</i>—old Elihu’s office. Nobody
was in it.</p>

<p>I motioned Albury into one chair and picked another for myself. The
cashier fidgeted with his back against the desk, facing both of us.</p>

<p>“Now, sir, will you explain this,” he said.</p>

<p>“We’ll get around to that,” I told him and turned to the boy. “You’re
an ex-boy-friend of Dinah’s who was given the air. You’re the only one
who knew her intimately who could have known about the certified check
in time to phone Mrs. Willsson and Thaler. Willsson was shot with a
.32. Banks like that caliber. Maybe the gun you used wasn’t a bank gun,
but I think it was. Maybe you didn’t put it back. Then there’ll be one
missing. Anyway I’m going to have a gun expert put his microscopes and
micrometers on the bullets that killed Willsson and bullets fired from all
the bank guns.”</p>

<p>The boy looked calmly at me and said nothing. He had himself under
control again. That wouldn’t do. I had to be nasty. I said:</p>

<p>“You were cuckoo over the girl. You confessed to me that it was
only because she wouldn’t stand for it that you didn’t—”</p>

<p>“Don’t—please don’t,” he gasped. His face was red again.</p>

<p>I made myself sneer at him until his eyes went down. Then I said:</p>

<p>“You talked too much, son. You were too damned anxious to make
your life an open book for me. That’s a way you amateur criminals have.
You’ve always got to overdo the frank and open business.”</p>

<p>He was watching his hands. I let him have the other barrel:</p>

<p>“You know you killed him. You know if you used a bank gun, and if
you put it back. If you did you’re nailed now, without an out. The gun-sharks
will take care of that. If you didn’t, I’m going to nail you anyhow.
All right. I don’t have to tell you whether you’ve got a chance or not. You
know.</p>

<p>“Noonan is framing Whisper Thaler for the job. He can’t convict
him, but the frame-up is tight enough that if Thaler’s killed resisting arrest,
the chief will be in the clear. That’s what he means to do—kill
Thaler. Thaler stood off the police all night in his King Street joint. He’s
still standing them off—unless they’ve got to him. The first copper that
gets to him—exit Thaler.</p>

<p>“If you figure you’ve got a chance to beat your rap, and you want to
let another man be killed on your account, that’s your business. But if you
know you haven’t got a chance—and you haven’t if the gun can be found—for
God’s sake give Thaler one by clearing him.”</p>

<p>“I’d like,” Albury’s voice was an old man’s. He looked up from his
hands, saw Dritton, said, “I’d like,” again and stopped.</p>

<p>“Where is the gun?” I asked.</p>

<p>“In Harper’s cage,” the boy said.</p>

<p>I scowled at the cashier and asked him:</p>

<p>“Will you get it?”</p>

<p>He went out as if he were glad to go.</p>

<p>“I didn’t mean to kill him,” the youngster said. “I don’t think I meant
to.”</p>

<p>I nodded encouragingly, trying to look solemnly sympathetic.</p>

<p>“I don’t think I meant to kill him,” he repeated, “though I took the
gun with me. You were right about my being cuckoo over Dinah—then.
It was worse some days than others. The day Willsson brought the check
in was one of the bad ones. All I could think about was that I had lost her
because I had no more money, and he was taking five thousand dollars to
her. It was the check. Can you understand that? I had known that she
and Thaler were—you know. If I had learned that Willsson and she were
too, without seeing the check, I wouldn’t have done anything. I’m sure of
it. It was seeing the check—and knowing I’d lost her because my money
was gone.</p>

<p>“I watched her house that night and saw him go in. I was afraid of
what I might do, because it was one of the bad days, and I had the gun in
my pocket. Honestly I didn’t want to do anything. I was afraid. I couldn’t
think of anything but the check, and why I had lost her. I knew Willsson’s
wife was jealous. Everybody knew that. I thought if I called her up
and told her—I don’t know exactly what I thought, but I went to a store
around the corner and phoned her. Then I phoned Thaler. I wanted them
there. If I could have thought of anyone else who had anything to do with
either Dinah or Willsson I’d have called them too.</p>

<p>“Then I went back and watched Dinah’s house again. Mrs. Willsson
came, and then Thaler, and both of them stayed there, watching the
house. I was glad of that. With them there I wasn’t so afraid of what I
might do. After a while Willsson came out and walked down the street. I
looked up at Mrs. Willsson’s car and at the doorway where I knew Thaler
was. Neither of them did anything, and Willsson was walking away. I
knew then why I had wanted them there. I had hoped they would do
something—and I wouldn’t have to. But they didn’t, and he was walking
away. If one of them had gone over and said something to him, or even
followed him, I wouldn’t have done anything.</p>

<p>“But they didn’t. I remember taking the gun out of my pocket. Everything
was blurred in front of my eyes, like I was crying. Maybe I was. I
don’t remember shooting—I mean I don’t remember deliberately aiming
and pulling the trigger—but I can remember the sound the shots made,
and that I knew the noise was coming from the gun in my hand. I don’t
remember how Willsson looked, if he fell before I turned and ran up the
alley, or not. When I got home I cleaned and reloaded the pistol, and put
it back in the paying teller’s cage the next morning.”</p>

<hr/>

<p>On the way down to the City Hall with the boy and the gun I apologized
for the village cut-up stuff I had put in the early part of the shake-down,
explaining:</p>

<p>“I had to get under your skin, and that was the best way I knew. The
way you’d talked about the girl showed me you were too good an actor to
be broken down by straight hammering.”</p>

<p>He winced, and said slowly:</p>

<p>“That wasn’t acting, altogether. When I was in danger, facing the
gallows, she didn’t—didn’t seem so important to me. I couldn’t—I can’t
now—quite understand—fully—why I did what I did. Do you know what I
mean? That somehow makes the whole thing—and me—cheap. I mean,
the whole thing from the beginning.”</p>

<p>I couldn’t find anything to say except something meaningless, like:</p>

<p>“Things happen that way.”</p>

<p>In the chief’s office we found one of the men who had been on the
storming party the night before—a red-faced official named Biddle. He
goggled at me with curious gray eyes, but asked no questions about the
King Street doings.</p>

<p>Biddle called in a young lawyer named Dart from the prosecuting
attorney’s office. Albury was repeating his story to Biddle, Dart and a
stenographer, when the chief of police, looking as if he had just crawled
out of bed, arrived.</p>

<p>“Well, it certainly is fine to see you,” Noonan said, pumping my
hand up and down while patting my back. “By God! you had a narrow one
last night—the rats! I was dead sure they’d got you till we kicked in the
doors and found the joint empty. Tell me how those son-of-a-guns got out
of there.”</p>

<p>“A couple of your men let them out the back door, took them through
the house in back, and sent them away in a department car. They took
me along so I couldn’t tip you off.”</p>

<p>“A couple of my men did that?” he asked, with no appearance of
surprise. “Well, well! What kind of looking men were they?”</p>

<p>I described them.</p>

<p>“Shore and Riordan,” he said. “I might of known it. Now what’s all
this?” nodding his fat face at Albury.</p>

<p>I told him briefly while the boy went on dictating his statement.</p>

<p>The chief chuckled and said:</p>

<p>“Well, well, I did Whisper an injustice. I’ll have to hunt him up and
square myself. So you landed the boy? That certainly is fine. Congratulations
and thanks.” He shook my hand again. “You’ll not be leaving our
city now, will you?”</p>

<p>“Not just yet.”</p>

<p>“That’s fine,” he assured me.</p>

<p>I went out for breakfast-and-lunch. Then I treated myself to a shave
and hair-cut, sent a telegram to the Agency asking to have Dick Foley and
Mickey Linehan shipped to Personville, stopped in my room for a change
of clothes, and set out for my client’s house.</p>

<p>Old Elihu was wrapped in blankets in an armchair at a sunny window.
He gave me a stubby hand and thanked me for catching his son’s
murderer.</p>

<p>I made some more or less appropriate reply. I didn’t ask him how he
had got the news.</p>

<p>“The check I gave you last night,” he said, “is only fair pay for the
work you have done.”</p>

<p>“Your son’s check more than covered that.”</p>

<p>“Then call mine a bonus.”</p>

<p>“The Continental’s got rules against taking bonuses or rewards,” I
said.</p>

<p>His face began to redden.</p>

<p>“Well, damn it—”</p>

<p>“You haven’t forgotten that your check was to cover the cost of investigating
crime and corruption in Personville, have you?” I asked.</p>

<p>“That was nonsense,” he snorted. “We were excited last night. That’s
called off.”</p>

<p>“Not with me.”</p>

<p>He threw a lot of profanity around. Then:</p>

<p>“It’s my money and I won’t have it wasted on a lot of damn-foolery.
If you won’t take it for what you’ve done, give it back to me.”</p>

<p>“Stop yelling at me,” I said. “I’ll give you nothing except a good job
of city-cleaning. That’s what you bargained for, and that’s what you’re
going to get. You know now that your son was killed by young Albury,
and not by your playmates. They know now that Thaler wasn’t helping
you double-cross them. With your son dead, you’ve been able to promise
them that the newspapers won’t dig up any more dirt. All’s lovely and
peaceful again.</p>

<p>“I told you I expected something like that. That’s why I sewed you
up. And you are sewed up. The check has been certified, so you can’t
stop payment. The letter of authority may not be as good as a contract,
but you’ll have to go into court to prove that it isn’t. If you want that
much of that kind of publicity, go ahead. I’ll see that you get plenty.</p>

<p>“Your fat chief of police tried to assassinate me last night. I don’t
like that. I’m just mean enough to want to ruin him for it. Now I’m going
to have my fun. I’ve got ten thousand dollars of your money to play with.
I’m going to use it opening Poisonville up from Adam’s apple to ankles.
I’ll see that you get my reports as regularly as possible. I hope you enjoy
them.”</p>

<p>And I went out of the house with his curses sizzling around my head.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">VIII</h2><p epub:type="title">A Tip on Kid Cooper</p></hgroup>

<p>I spent most of the afternoon writing my three days’ reports
on the Donald Willsson operation. Then I sat around, burned Fatimas,
and thought about the Elihu Willsson operation until dinner time.</p>

<p>I went down to the hotel dining room and had just decided in favor
of pounded rump steak with mushrooms when I heard myself being paged.</p>

<p>The boy took me to one of the lobby booths. Dinah Brand’s lazy
voice came out of the receiver:</p>

<p>“Max wants to see you. Can you drop in tonight?”</p>

<p>“Your place?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>I promised to drop in and returned to the dining room and my meal.
When I had finished eating I went up to my room, fifth floor front. I
unlocked the door and went in, snapping on the light.</p>

<p>A bullet kissed a hole in the door-frame close to my noodle.</p>

<p>More bullets made more holes in door, door-frame and wall, but by
that time I had carried my noodle into a safe corner, one out of line with
the window.</p>

<p>Across the street, I knew, was a four-story office building with a roof
a little above the level of my window. The roof would be dark. My light
was on. There was no percentage in trying to peep out under those conditions.</p>

<p>I looked around for something to chuck at the light globe, found a
Gideon Bible, and chucked it. The bulb popped apart, giving me darkness.</p>

<p>The shooting had stopped.</p>

<p>I crept to the window, kneeling with an eye to one of its lower corners.
The roof across the street was dark and too high for me to see beyond
its rim. Ten minutes of this one-eyed spying got me nothing except
a kink in my neck.</p>

<p>I went to the phone and asked the girl to send the house copper up.</p>

<p>He was a portly, white-mustached man with the round undeveloped
forehead of a child. He wore a too-small hat on the back of his head to
show the forehead. His name was Keever. He got too excited over the
shooting.</p>

<p>The hotel manager came in, a plump man with carefully controlled
face, voice and manner. He didn’t get excited at all. He took the this-is-unheard-of-but-not-really-serious-of-course
attitude of a street fakir whose
mechanical dingus flops during a demonstration.</p>

<p>We risked light, getting a new globe, and added up the bullet-holes.
There were ten of them.</p>

<p>Policemen came, went, and returned to report no luck in picking up
whatever trail there might have been. Noonan called up. He talked to the
sergeant in charge of the police detail, and then to me.</p>

<p>“I just this minute heard about the shooting,” he said. “Now who
do you reckon would be after you like that?”</p>

<p>“I couldn’t guess,” I lied.</p>

<p>“None of them touched you?”</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>“Well, that certainly is fine,” he said heartily. “And we’ll nail that
baby, whoever he was, you can bet your life on that. Would you like me
to leave a couple of the boys with you, just to see nothing else happens?”</p>

<p>“No, thanks.”</p>

<p>“You can have them if you want them,” he insisted.</p>

<p>“No, thanks.”</p>

<p>He made me promise to call on him the first chance I got, told me
the Personville police department was at my disposal, gave me to understand
that if anything happened to me his whole life would be ruined,
and I finally got rid of him.</p>

<p>The police went away. I had my stuff moved into another room, one
into which bullets couldn’t be so easily funneled. Then I changed my
clothes and set out for Hurricane Street, to keep my date with the whispering
gambler.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Dinah Brand opened the door for me. Her big ripe mouth was rouged
evenly this evening, but her brown hair still needed trimming, was parted
haphazardly, and there were spots down the front of her orange silk dress.</p>

<p>“So you’re still alive,” she said. “I suppose nothing can be done about
it. Come on in.”</p>

<p>We went into her cluttered-up living room. Dan Rolff and Max Thaler
were playing pinochle there. Rolff nodded to me. Thaler got up to shake
hands.</p>

<p>His hoarse whispering voice said:</p>

<p>“I hear you’ve declared war on Poisonville.”</p>

<p>“Don’t blame me. I’ve got a client who wants the place ventilated.”</p>

<p>“Wanted, not wants,” he corrected me as we sat down. “Why don’t
you chuck it?”</p>

<p>I made a speech:</p>

<p>“No. I don’t like the way Poisonville has treated me. I’ve got my
chance now, and I’m going to even up. I take it you’re back in the club
again, all brothers together, let bygones be bygones. You want to be let
alone. There was a time when I wanted to be let alone. If I had been,
maybe now I’d be riding back to San Francisco. But I wasn’t. Especially
I wasn’t let alone by that fat Noonan. He’s had two tries at my scalp in
two days. That’s plenty. Now it’s my turn to run him ragged, and that’s
exactly what I’m going to do. Poisonville is ripe for the harvest. It’s a job
I like, and I’m going to it.”</p>

<p>“While you last,” the gambler said.</p>

<p>“Yeah,” I agreed. “I was reading in the paper this morning about a
fellow choking to death eating a chocolate eclair in bed.”</p>

<p>“That may be good,” said Dinah Brand, her big body sprawled in
an armchair, “but it wasn’t in this morning’s paper.”</p>

<p>She lit a cigarette and threw the match out of sight under the Chesterfield.
The lunger had gathered up the cards and was shuffling them
over and over, purposelessly.</p>

<p>Thaler frowned at me and said:</p>

<p>“Willsson’s willing for you to keep the ten grand. Let it go at that.”</p>

<p>“I’ve got a mean disposition. Attempted assassinations make me
mad.”</p>

<p>“That won’t get you anything but a box. I’m for you. You kept Noonan
from framing me. That’s why I’m telling you, forget it and go back
to Frisco.”</p>

<p>“I’m for you,” I said. “That’s why I’m telling you, split with them.
They crossed you up once. It’ll happen again. Anyway, they’re slated for
the chutes. Get out while the getting’s good.”</p>

<p>“I’m sitting too pretty,” he said. “And I’m able to take care of myself.”</p>

<p>“Maybe. But you know the racket’s too good to last. You’ve had the
cream of the pickings. Now it’s get-away day.”</p>

<p>He shook his little dark head and told me:</p>

<p>“I think you’re pretty good, but I’m damned if I think you’re good
enough to crack this camp. It’s too tight. If I thought you could swing it,
I’d be with you. You know how I stand with Noonan. But you’ll never
make it. Chuck it.”</p>

<p>“No. I’m in it to the last nickel of Elihu’s ten thousand.”</p>

<p>“I told you he was too damned pig-headed to listen to reason,”
Dinah Brand said, yawning. “Isn’t there anything to drink in the dump,
Dan?”</p>

<p>The lunger got up from the table and went out of the room.</p>

<p>Thaler shrugged, said:</p>

<p>“Have it your way. You’re supposed to know what you’re doing. Going
to the fights tomorrow night?”</p>

<p>I said I thought I would. Dan Rolff came in with gin and trimmings.
We had a couple of drinks apiece. We talked about the fights. Nothing
more was said about me versus Poisonville. The gambler apparently had
washed his hands of me, but he didn’t seem to hold my stubbornness
against me. He even gave me what seemed to be a straight tip on the
fights—telling me any bet on the main event would be good if its maker
remembered that Kid Cooper would probably knock Ike Bush out in the
sixth round. He seemed to know what he was talking about, and it didn’t
seem to be news to the others.</p>

<p>I left a little after eleven, returning to the hotel without anything
happening.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">IX</h2><p epub:type="title">A Black Knife</p></hgroup>

<p>I woke next morning with an idea in my skull. Personville
had only some forty thousand inhabitants. It shouldn’t be hard to spread
news. Ten o’clock found me out spreading it.</p>

<p>I did my spreading in pool rooms, cigar stores, speakeasies, soft
drink joints, and on street corners—wherever I found a man or two loafing.
My spreading technique was something like this:</p>

<p>“Got a match? .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Thanks.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Going to the fights tonight? .&nbsp;.&nbsp;.
I hear Ike Bush takes a dive in the sixth.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. It ought to be straight: I
got it from Whisper.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Yeah, they all are.”</p>

<p>People like inside stuff, and anything that had Thaler’s name to it
was very inside in Personville. The news spread nicely. Half the men I
gave it to worked almost as hard as I did spreading it, just to show they
knew what was what.</p>

<p>When I started out, seven to four was being offered that Ike Bush
would win, and two to three that he would win by a knock-out. By two
o’clock none of the joints taking bets were offering anything better than
even money, and by half-past three Kid Cooper was a two-to-one favorite.</p>

<p>I made my last stop a lunch counter, where I tossed the news out to
a waiter and a couple of customers while eating a hot beef sandwich.</p>

<p>When I went out I found a man waiting by the door for me. He had
bowed legs and a long sharp jaw, like a hog’s. He nodded and walked down
the street beside me, chewing a toothpick and squinting sidewise into my
face. At the corner he said:</p>

<p>“I know for a fact that ain’t so.”</p>

<p>“What?” I asked.</p>

<p>“About Ike Bush flopping. I know for a fact that ain’t so.”</p>

<p>“Then it oughtn’t bother you any. But the wise money’s going two
to one on Cooper, and he’s not that good unless Bush lets him be.”</p>

<p>The hog jaw spit out the mangled toothpick and snapped yellow
teeth at me.</p>

<p>“He told me his own self that Cooper was a set-up for him, last
night, and he wouldn’t do nothing like that—not to me.”</p>

<p>“Friend of yours?”</p>

<p>“Not exactly, but he knows I—Hey, listen! Did Whisper give you
that, on the level?”</p>

<p>“On the level.”</p>

<p>He cursed bitterly. “And I put my last thirty-five bucks in the world
on that rat on his say-so. Me, that could send him over for—” He broke
off and looked down the street.</p>

<p>“Could send him over for what?” I asked.</p>

<p>“Plenty,” he said. “Nothing.”</p>

<p>I had a suggestion:</p>

<p>“If you’ve got something on him, maybe we ought to talk it over. I
wouldn’t mind seeing Bush win, myself. If what you’ve got is any good,
what’s the matter with putting it up to him?”</p>

<p>He looked at me, at the sidewalk, fumbled in his vest pocket for
another toothpick, put it in his mouth, and mumbled:</p>

<p>“Who are you?”</p>

<p>I gave him a name, something like Hunter or Hunt or Huntington,
and asked him his. He said his name was MacSwain, Bob MacSwain, and
I could ask anybody in town if it wasn’t right.</p>

<p>I said I believed him and asked:</p>

<p>“What do you say? Will we put the squeeze to Bush?”</p>

<p>Little hard lights came into his eyes and died.</p>

<p>“No,” he gulped. “I ain’t that kind of fellow. I never—”</p>

<p>“You never did anything but let people gyp you. You don’t have to
go up against him, MacSwain. Give me the dope, and I’ll make the play—if
it’s any good.”</p>

<p>He thought that over, licking his lips, letting the toothpick fall down
to stick on his coat front.</p>

<p>“You wouldn’t let on about me having any part in it?” he asked. “I
belong here, and I wouldn’t stand a chance if it got out. And you won’t
turn him up? You’ll just use it to make him fight?”</p>

<p>“Right.”</p>

<p>He took my hand excitedly and demanded:</p>

<p>“Honest to God?”</p>

<p>“Honest to God.”</p>

<p>“His real monacker is Al Kennedy. He was in on the Keystone Trust
knock-over in Philly two years ago, when Scissors Haggerty’s mob croaked
two messengers. Al didn’t do the killing, but he was in on the caper. He
used to scrap around Philly. The rest of them got copped, but he
made the sneak. That’s why he’s sticking out here in the bushes. That’s
why he won’t never let them put his mug in the papers or on any cards.
That’s why he’s a pork-and-beaner when he’s as good as the best. See?
This Ike Bush is Al Kennedy that the Philly bulls want for the Keystone
trick. See? He was in on the—”</p>

<p>“I see I see,” I stopped the merry-go-round. “The next thing is to get
to see him. How do we do that?”</p>

<p>“He flops at the Maxwell, on Union Street. I guess maybe he’d be
there now, resting up for the mill.”</p>

<p>“Resting for what? He doesn’t know he’s going to fight. We’ll give it
a try, though.”</p>

<p>“We! We! Where do you get that <i>we</i> at? You said—you swore you’d
keep me covered.”</p>

<p>“Yeah,” I said, “I remember that now. What does he look like?”</p>

<p>“A black-headed kid, kind of slim, with one tin ear and eyebrows that
run straight across. I don’t know if you can make him like it.”</p>

<p>“Leave that to me. Where’ll I find you afterwards?”</p>

<p>“I’ll be hanging around Murry’s. Mind you don’t tip my mitt. You
promised.”</p>

<hr/>

<p>The Maxwell was one of a dozen hotels along Union Street with narrow
front doors between stores, and shabby stairs leading up to second-story
offices. The Maxwell’s office was simply a wide place in the hall, with a
key-&nbsp;and mail-rack behind a wooden counter that needed paint just as
badly. A brass bell and a dirty day-book register were on the counter. Nobody
was there.</p>

<p>I had to run back eight pages before I found <i>Ike Bush, Salt Lake
City, 214</i>, written in the book. The pigeon-hole that had that number was
empty. I climbed more steps and knocked on a door that had it. Nothing
came of that. I tried it two or three times more and then turned back to
the stairs.</p>

<p>Somebody was coming up. I stood at the top, waiting for a look at
him. There was just light enough to see by.</p>

<p>He was a slim muscular lad in army shirt, blue suit, gray cap. Black
eyebrows made a straight line above his eyes.</p>

<p>I said: “Hello.”</p>

<p>He nodded without stopping or saying anything.</p>

<p>“Win tonight?” I asked.</p>

<p>“Hope so,” he said shortly, passing me.</p>

<p>I let him take four steps toward his room before I told him:</p>

<p>“So do I. I’d hate to have to ship you back to Philly, Al.”</p>

<p>He took another step, turned around very slowly, rested a shoulder
against the wall, let his eyes get sleepy, and grunted:</p>

<p>“Huh?”</p>

<p>“If you were smacked down in the sixth or any other round by a
palooka like Kid Cooper, it’d make me peevish,” I said. “Don’t do it, Al.
You don’t want to go back to Philly.”</p>

<p>The youngster put his chin down in his neck and came back to me.
When he was within arm’s reach, he stopped, letting his left side turn a
bit to the front. His hands were hanging loose. Mine were in my overcoat
pockets.</p>

<p>He said, “Huh?” again.</p>

<p>I said:</p>

<p>“Try to remember that—if Ike Bush doesn’t turn in a win tonight, Al
Kennedy will be riding east in the morning.”</p>

<p>He lifted his left shoulder an inch. I moved the gun around in my
pocket, enough. He grumbled:</p>

<p>“Where do you get that stuff about me not winning?”</p>

<p>“Just something I heard. I didn’t think there was anything in it, except
maybe a ducat back to Philly.”</p>

<p>“I oughta bust your jaw, you fat crook.”</p>

<p>“Now’s the time to do it,” I advised him. “If you win tonight you’re
not likely to see me again. If you lose, you’ll see me, but your hands won’t
be loose.”</p>

<p>I found MacSwain in Murry’s, a Broadway pool room.</p>

<p>“Did you get to him?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Yeah. It’s all fixed—if he doesn’t blow town, or say something to his
backers, or just pay no attention to me, or—”</p>

<p>MacSwain developed a lot of nervousness.</p>

<p>“You better damn sight be careful,” he warned me. “They might
try to put you out the way. He—I got to see a fellow down the street,” and
he deserted me.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Poisonville’s prize fighting was done in a big wooden ex-casino in what
had once been an amusement park on the edge of town. When I got there
at eight-thirty, most of the population seemed to be on hand, packed
tight in close rows of folding chairs on the main floor, packed tighter on
benches in two dinky balconies.</p>

<p>Smoke. Stink. Heat. Noise.</p>

<p>My seat was in the third row, ringside. Moving down to it, I discovered
Dan Rolff in an aisle seat not far away, with Dinah Brand beside
him. She had had her hair trimmed at last, and marcelled, and looked like
a lot of money in a big gray fur coat.</p>

<p>“Get down on Cooper?” she asked after we had swapped hellos.</p>

<p>“No. You playing him heavy?”</p>

<p>“Not as heavy as I’d like. We held off, thinking the odds would get
better, but they went to hell.”</p>

<p>“Everybody in town seems to know Bush is going to dive,” I said. “I
saw a hundred put on Cooper at four to one a few minutes ago.” I leaned
past Rolff and put my mouth close to where the gray fur collar hid the
girl’s ear, whispering: “The dive is off. Better copper your bets while
there’s time.”</p>

<p>Her big bloodshot eyes went wide and dark with anxiety, greed,
curiosity, suspicion.</p>

<p>“You mean it?” she asked huskily.</p>

<p>“Yeah.”</p>

<p>She chewed her reddened lips, frowned, asked:</p>

<p>“Where’d you get it?”</p>

<p>I wouldn’t say. She chewed her mouth some more and asked:</p>

<p>“Is Max on?”</p>

<p>“I haven’t seen him. Is he here?”</p>

<p>“I suppose so,” she said absent-mindedly, a distant look in her eyes.
Her lips moved as if she were counting to herself.</p>

<p>I said: “Take it or leave it, but it’s a gut.”</p>

<p>She leaned forward to look sharply into my eyes, clicked her teeth
together, opened her bag, and dragged out a roll of bills the size of a coffee
can. Part of the roll she pushed at Rolff.</p>

<p>“Here, Dan, get it down on Bush. You’ve got an hour anyway to
look over the odds.”</p>

<p>Rolff took the money and went off on his errand. I took his seat. She
put a hand on my forearm and said:</p>

<p>“Christ help you if you’ve made me drop that dough.”</p>

<p>I pretended the idea was ridiculous.</p>

<p>The preliminary bouts got going, four-round affairs between assorted
hams. I kept looking for Thaler, but couldn’t see him. The girl
squirmed beside me, paying little attention to the fighting, dividing her
time between asking me where I had got my information and threatening
me with hell-fire and damnation if it turned out to be a bust.</p>

<p>The semi-final was on when Rolff came back and gave the girl a handful
of tickets. She was straining her eyes over them when I left for my
own seat. Without looking up she called to me:</p>

<p>“Wait outside for us when it’s over.”</p>

<p>Kid Cooper climbed into the ring while I was squeezing through to
my seat. He was a ruddy straw-haired solid-built boy with a dented face
and too much meat around the top of his lavender trunks. Ike Bush, alias
Al Kennedy, came through the ropes in the opposite corner. His body
looked better—slim, nicely ridged, snaky—but his face was pale, worried.</p>

<p>They were introduced, went to the center of the ring for the usual
instructions, returned to their corners, shed bathrobes, stretched on the
ropes, the gong rang, and the scrap was on.</p>

<p>Cooper was a clumsy bum. He had a pair of wide swings that might
have hurt when they landed, but anybody with two feet could have kept
away from them. Bush had class—nimble legs, a smooth fast left hand, and
a right that got away quick. It would have been murder to put Cooper in
the ring with the slim boy if he had been trying. But he wasn’t. That is,
he wasn’t trying to win. He was trying not to, and had his hands full
doing it.</p>

<p>Cooper waddled flat-footed around the ring, throwing his wide swings
at everything from the lights to the corner posts. His system was simply
to turn them loose and let them take their chances. Bush moved in and
out, putting a glove on the ruddy boy whenever he wanted to, but not
putting anything in the glove.</p>

<p>The customers were booing before the first round was over. The
second round was just as sour. I didn’t feel so good. Bush didn’t seem to
have been much influenced by our little conversation. Out of the corner
of my eye I could see Dinah Brand trying to catch my attention. She
looked hot. I took care not to have my attention caught.</p>

<p>The room-mate act in the ring was continued in the third round to
the tune of yelled Throw-em-outs, Why-don’t-you-kiss-hims and Make-em-fights
from the seats. The pugs’ waltz brought them around to the
corner nearest me just as the booing broke off for a moment.</p>

<p>I made a megaphone of my hands and bawled:</p>

<p>“Back to Philly, Al.”</p>

<p>Bush’s back was to me. He wrestled Cooper around, shoving him into
the ropes, so he—Bush—faced my way.</p>

<p>From somewhere far back in another part of the house another
yelling voice came:</p>

<p>“Back to Philly, Al.”</p>

<p>MacSwain, I supposed.</p>

<p>A drunk off to one side lifted his puffy face and bawled the same
thing, laughing as if it were a swell joke. Others took up the cry for no
reason at all except that it seemed to disturb Bush.</p>

<p>His eyes jerked from side to side under the black bar of his eyebrows.</p>

<p>One of Cooper’s wild mitts clouted the slim boy on the side of the
jaw.</p>

<p>Ike Bush piled down at the referee’s feet.</p>

<p>The referee counted five in two seconds, but the gong cut him off.</p>

<p>I looked over at Dinah Brand and laughed. There wasn’t anything
else to do. She looked at me and didn’t laugh. Her face was sick as Dan
Rolff’s, but angrier.</p>

<p>Bush’s handlers dragged him into his corner and rubbed him up,
not working very hard at it. He opened his eyes and watched his feet. The
gong was tapped.</p>

<p>Kid Cooper paddled out hitching up his trunks. Bush waited until
the bum was in the center of the ring, and then came to him, fast.</p>

<p>Bush’s left glove went down, out—practically out of sight in Cooper’s
belly. Cooper said, “Ugh,” and backed away, folding up.</p>

<p>Bush straightened him with a right-hand poke in the mouth, and
sank the left again. Cooper said, “Ugh,” again and had trouble with his
knees.</p>

<p>Bush cuffed him once on each side of the head, cocked his right,
carefully pushed Cooper’s face into position with a long left, and threw
his right hand straight from under his jaw to Cooper’s.</p>

<p>Everybody in the house felt the punch.</p>

<p>Cooper hit the floor, bounced, and settled there. It took the referee
half a minute to count ten seconds. It would have been just the same if
he had taken half an hour. Kid Cooper was out.</p>

<p>When the referee had finally stalled through the count, he raised
Bush’s hand. Neither of them looked happy.</p>

<p>A high twinkle of light caught my eye. A short silvery streak slanted
down from one of the small balconies.</p>

<p>A woman screamed.</p>

<p>The silvery streak ended its flashing slant in the ring, with a sound
that was partly a thud, partly a snap.</p>

<p>Ike Bush took his arm out of the referee’s hand and pitched down
on top of Kid Cooper. A black knife-handle stuck out of the nape of
Bush’s neck.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">X</h2><p epub:type="title">Crime Wanted—Male or Female</p></hgroup>

<p>Half an hour later, when I left the building, Dinah Brand
was sitting at the wheel of a pale blue little Marmon, talking to Max
Thaler, who stood in the road.</p>

<p>The girl’s square chin was tilted up. Her big red mouth was brutal
around the words it shaped, and the lines crossing its ends were deep,
hard.</p>

<p>The gambler looked as unpleasant as she. His pretty face was yellow
and tough as oak. When he talked his lips were paper-thin.</p>

<p>It seemed to be a nice family party. I wouldn’t have joined it if the
girl hadn’t seen me and called:</p>

<p>“My God, I thought you were never coming.”</p>

<p>I went over to the car. Thaler looked across the hood at me with no
friendliness at all.</p>

<p>“Last night I advised you to go back to Frisco.” His whisper was
harsher than anybody’s shout could have been. “Now I’m telling you.”</p>

<p>“Thanks just the same,” I said as I got in beside the girl.</p>

<p>While she was stirring the engine up he said to her:</p>

<p>“This isn’t the first time you’ve sold me out. It’s the last.”</p>

<p>She put the car in motion, turned her head back over her shoulder,
and sang to him:</p>

<p>“To hell, my love, with you!”</p>

<p>We rode into town rapidly.</p>

<p>“Is Bush dead?” she asked as she twisted the car into Broadway.</p>

<p>“Decidedly. When they turned him over the point of the knife was
sticking out in front.”</p>

<p>“He ought to have known better than to double-cross them. Let’s
get something to eat. I’m almost eleven-hundred ahead on the night’s
doings, so if the boy friend doesn’t like it, it’s just too bad. How’d you
come out?”</p>

<p>“Didn’t bet. So your Max doesn’t like it?”</p>

<p>“Didn’t bet?” she cried. “What kind of an ass are you? Whoever
heard of anybody not betting when they had a thing like that sewed up?”</p>

<p>“I wasn’t sure it was sewed up. So Max didn’t like the way things
turned out?”</p>

<p>“You guessed it. He dropped plenty. And then he gets sore with me
because I had sense enough to switch over and get in on the win.” She
stopped the car violently in front of a Chinese restaurant. “The hell
with him, the little tin-horn runt!”</p>

<p>Her eyes were shiny because they were wet. She jabbed a handkerchief
into them as we got out of the car.</p>

<p>“My God, I’m hungry,” she said, dragging me across the sidewalk.
“Will you buy me a ton of <i>chow mein</i>?”</p>

<p>She didn’t eat a ton of it, but she did pretty well, putting away a
piled-up dish of her own and half of mine. Then we got back into the
Marmon and rode out to her house.</p>

<p>Dan Rolff was in the dining room. A water glass and a brown bottle
with no label stood on the table in front of him. He sat straight up in his
chair, staring at the bottle. The room smelled of laudanum.</p>

<p>Dinah Brand slid her fur coat off, letting it fall half on a chair and
half on the floor, and snapped her fingers at the lunger, saying impatiently:</p>

<p>“Did you collect?”</p>

<p>Without looking up from the bottle, he took a pad of paper money
out of his inside coat pocket and dropped it on the table. The girl grabbed
it, counted the bills twice, smacked her lips, and stuffed the money in her
bag.</p>

<p>She went out to the kitchen and began chopping ice. I sat down and
lit a cigarette. Rolff stared at his bottle. He and I never seemed to have
much to say to one another. Presently the girl brought in some gin, lemon
juice, seltzer and ice.</p>

<p>We drank and she told Rolff:</p>

<p>“Max is sore as hell. He heard you’d been running around putting
last-minute money on Bush, and the little monkey thinks I double-crossed
him. What did I have to do with it? All I did was what any sensible person
would have done—get in on the win. I didn’t have any more to do
with it than a baby, did I?” she asked me.</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>“Of course not. What’s the matter with Max is he’s afraid the others
will think he was in on it too, that Dan was putting his dough down as
well as mine. Well, that’s his hard luck. He can go climb trees for all I
care, the lousy little runt. Another drink would go good.”</p>

<p>She poured another for herself and for me. Rolff hadn’t touched his
first one. He said, still staring at the brown bottle:</p>

<p>“You can hardly expect him to be hilarious about it.”</p>

<p>The girl scowled and said disagreeably:</p>

<p>“I can expect anything I want. And he’s got no right to talk to me
that way. He doesn’t own me. Maybe he thinks he does, but I’ll show
him different.” She emptied her glass, banged it on the table, and twisted
around in her chair to face me. “Is that on the level about your having
ten thousand dollars of Elihu Willsson’s money to use cleaning up the
city?”</p>

<p>“Yeah.”</p>

<p>Her bloodshot eyes glistened hungrily.</p>

<p>“And if I help you will I get some of the ten—?”</p>

<p>“You can’t do that, Dinah.” Rolff’s voice was thick, but gently firm,
as if he were talking to a child. “That would be utterly filthy.”</p>

<p>The girl turned her face slowly toward him. Her mouth took on the
look it had worn while talking to Thaler.</p>

<p>“I am going to do it,” she said. “That makes me utterly filthy, does
it?”</p>

<p>He didn’t say anything, didn’t look up from the bottle. Her face got
red, hard, cruel. Her voice was soft, cooing:</p>

<p>“It’s just too bad that a gentleman of your purity, even if he is a bit
consumptive, has to associate with a filthy bum like me.”</p>

<p>“That can be remedied,” he said slowly, getting up. He was laudanumed
to the scalp.</p>

<p>Dinah Brand jumped out of her chair and ran around the table to
him. He looked at her with blank dopey eyes. She put her face close to
his and demanded:</p>

<p>“So I’m too utterly filthy for you now, am I?”</p>

<p>He said evenly:</p>

<p>“I said to betray your friends to this chap would be utterly filthy, and
it would.”</p>

<p>She caught one of his thin wrists and twisted it until he was on his
knees. Her other hand, open, beat his hollow-cheeked face, half a dozen
times on each side, rocking his head from side to side. He could have put
his free arm up to protect his face, but didn’t.</p>

<p>She let go his wrist, turned her back on him, and reached for gin and
seltzer. She was smiling. I didn’t like the smile.</p>

<p>He got up, blinking. His wrist was red where she had held it, his face
bruised. He steadied himself upright and looked at me with dull eyes.</p>

<p>With no change in the blankness of his face and eyes, he put a hand
under his coat, brought out a black automatic pistol, and fired at me.</p>

<p>But he was too shaky for either speed or accuracy. I had time to toss
a glass at him. The glass hit his shoulder. His bullet went somewhere overhead.</p>

<p>I jumped before he got the next one out—jumped at him—was close
enough to knock the gun down. The second slug went into the floor.</p>

<p>I socked his jaw. He fell away from me and lay where he fell.</p>

<p>I turned around.</p>

<p>Dinah Brand was getting ready to bat me over the head with the
seltzer bottle, a heavy glass siphon that would have made pulp of my
skull.</p>

<p>“Don’t,” I yelped.</p>

<p>“You didn’t have to bust him like that,” she snarled.</p>

<p>“Well, it’s done. You’d better get him straightened out.”</p>

<p>She put down the siphon and I helped her carry him up to his bedroom.
When he began moving his eyes, I left her to finish the work and
went down to the dining room again. She joined me there fifteen minutes
later.</p>

<p>“He’s all right,” she said. “But you could have handled him without
that.”</p>

<p>“Yeah, but I did that for him. Know why he took the shot at me?”</p>

<p>“So I’d have nobody to sell Max out to?”</p>

<p>“No. Because I’d seen you maul him around.”</p>

<p>“That doesn’t make sense to me,” she said. “I was the one who did
it.”</p>

<p>“He’s in love with you, and this isn’t the first time you’ve done it.
He acted like he had learned there was no use matching muscle with you.
But you can’t expect him to enjoy having another man see you slap his
face.”</p>

<p>“I used to think I knew men,” she complained, “but, by God! I don’t.
They’re lunatics, all of them.”</p>

<p>“So I poked him to give him back some of his self-respect. You know,
treated him as I would a man instead of a down-and-outer who could be
slapped around by girls.”</p>

<p>“Anything you say,” she sighed. “I give up. We ought to have a drink.”</p>

<p>We had the drink, and I said:</p>

<p>“You were saying you’d work with me if there was a cut of the Willsson
money in it for you. There is.”</p>

<p>“How much?”</p>

<p>“Whatever you earn. Whatever what you do is worth.”</p>

<p>“That’s uncertain.”</p>

<p>“So’s your help, so far as I know.”</p>

<p>“Is it? I can give you the stuff, brother, loads of it, and don’t think
I can’t. I’m a girl who knows her Poisonville.” She looked down at her
gray-stockinged knees, waved one leg at me, and exclaimed indignantly:
“Look at that. Another run. Did you ever see anything to beat it? Honest
to God! I’m going barefoot.”</p>

<p>“Your legs are too big,” I told her. “They put too much strain on the
material.”</p>

<p>“That’ll do out of you. What’s your idea of how to go about purifying
our village?”</p>

<p>“If I haven’t been lied to, Thaler, Pete the Finn, Lew Yard and
Noonan are the men who’ve made Poisonville the sweet-smelling mess it
is. Old Elihu comes in for his share of the blame, too, but it’s not all his
fault, maybe. Besides, he’s my client, even if he doesn’t want to be, so I’d
like to go easy on him.</p>

<p>“The closest I’ve got to an idea is to dig up any and all the dirty work
I can that might implicate the others, and run it out. Maybe I’ll advertise—<i>Crime
Wanted—Male or Female</i>. If they’re as crooked as I think
they are I shouldn’t have a lot of trouble finding a job or two that I can
hang on them.”</p>

<p>“Is that what you were up to when you uncooked the fight?”</p>

<p>“That was only an experiment—just to see what would happen.”</p>

<p>“So that’s the way you scientific detectives work. My God! for a fat,
middle-aged, hard-boiled, pig-headed guy, you’ve got the vaguest way of
doing things I ever heard of.”</p>

<p>“Plans are all right sometimes,” I said. “And sometimes just stirring
things up is all right—if you’re tough enough to survive, and keep
your eyes open so you’ll see what you want when it comes to the top.”</p>

<p>“That ought to be good for another drink,” she said.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XI</h2><p epub:type="title">The Swell Spoon</p></hgroup>

<p>We had another drink.</p>

<p>She put her glass down, licked her lips, and said:</p>

<p>“If stirring things up is your system, I’ve got a swell spoon for you.
Did you ever hear of Noonan’s brother Tim, the one who committed suicide
out at Mock Lake a couple of years ago?”</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>“You wouldn’t have heard much good. Anyway, he didn’t commit
suicide. Max killed him.”</p>

<p>“Yeah?”</p>

<p>“For God’s sake wake up. This I’m giving you is real. Noonan was
like a father to Tim. Take the proof to him and he’ll be after Max like
nobody’s business. That’s what you want, isn’t it?”</p>

<p>“We’ve got proof?”</p>

<p>“Two people got to Tim before he died, and he told them Max had
done it. They’re both still in town, though one won’t live a lot longer.
How’s that?”</p>

<p>She looked as if she were telling the truth, though with women, especially
blue-eyed women, that doesn’t always mean anything.</p>

<p>“Let’s listen to the rest of it,” I said. “I like details and things.”</p>

<p>“You’ll get them. You ever been out to Mock Lake? Well, it’s our
summer resort, thirty miles up the canyon road. It’s a dump, but it’s
cool in summer, so it gets a good play. This was summer a year ago, the
last week-end in August. I was out there with a fellow named Holly. He’s
back in England now, but you don’t care anything about that, because
he’s got nothing to do with it. He was a funny sort of old woman—used to
wear white silk socks turned inside out so the loose threads wouldn’t hurt
his feet. I got a letter from him last week. It’s around here somewhere,
but that doesn’t make any difference.</p>

<p>“We were up there, and Max was up there with a girl he used to play
around with—Myrtle Jennison. She’s in the hospital now—City—dying
of Bright’s disease or something. She was a classy looking kid then, a slender
blonde. I always liked her, except that a few drinks made her too
noisy. Tim Noonan was crazy about her, but she couldn’t see anybody
but Max that summer.</p>

<p>“Tim wouldn’t let her alone. He was a big good-looking Irishman,
but a sap and a cheap crook who only got by because his brother was chief
of police. Wherever Myrtle went, he’d pop up sooner or later. She didn’t
like to say anything to Max about it, not wanting Max to do anything to
put him in wrong with Tim’s brother, the chief.</p>

<p>“So of course Tim showed up at Mock Lake this Saturday. Myrtle
and Max were just by themselves. Holly and I were with a bunch, but I
saw Myrtle to talk to and she told me she had got a note from Tim, asking
her to meet him for a few minutes that night, in one of the little arbor
things on the hotel grounds. He said if she didn’t he would kill himself.
That was a laugh for us—the big false alarm. I tried to talk Myrtle out
of going, but she had just enough booze in her to feel gay and she said she
was going to give him an earful.</p>

<p>“We were all dancing in the hotel that night. Max was there for a
while, and then I didn’t see him any more. Myrtle was dancing with a
fellow named Rutgers, a lawyer here in town. After a while she left him
and went out one of the side doors. She winked at me when she passed, so
I knew she was going down to see Tim. She had just got out when I
heard the shot. Nobody else paid any attention to it. I suppose I wouldn’t
have noticed it either if I hadn’t known about Myrtle and Tim.</p>

<p>“I told Holly I wanted to see Myrtle, and went out after her, by
myself. I must have been about five minutes behind her in getting out.
When I got outside I saw lights down by one of the summer houses, and
people. I went down there, and—This talking is thirsty work.”</p>

<p>I poured out a couple of hookers of gin. She went into the kitchen
for another siphon and more ice. We mixed them up, drank, and she settled
down to her tale again:</p>

<p>“There was Tim Noonan, dead, with a hole in his temple and his
gun lying beside him. Perhaps a dozen people were standing around, hotel
people, visitors, one of Noonan’s men, a dick named MacSwain. As soon
as Myrtle saw me she took me away from the crowd, back in the shade
of some trees.</p>

<p>“ ‘Max killed him,’ she said. ‘What’ll I do?’</p>

<p>“I asked her about it. She told me she had seen the flash of the gun
and at first she thought Tim had killed himself after all. She was too far
away and it was too dark for her to see anything else. When she ran down
to him, he was rolling around, moaning, ‘He didn’t have to kill me over
her. I’d have—’ She couldn’t make out the rest of it. He was rolling
around, bleeding from the hole in his temple.</p>

<p>“Myrtle was afraid Max had done it, but she had to be sure, so she
knelt down and tried to pick up Tim’s head, asking: ‘Who did it, Tim?’</p>

<p>“He was almost gone, but before he passed out he got enough
strength to tell her, ‘Max!’</p>

<p>“She kept asking me, ‘What’ll I do?’ I asked her if anybody else had
heard Tim, and she said the dick had. He came running up while she was
trying to lift Tim’s head. She didn’t think anybody else had been near
enough to hear, but the dick had.</p>

<p>“I didn’t want Max to get in a jam over killing a mutt like Tim
Noonan. Max didn’t mean anything to me then, except that I liked him,
and I didn’t like any of the Noonans. I knew the dick—MacSwain. I used
to know his wife. He had been a pretty good guy, straight as ace-deuce-trey-four-five,
till he got on the force. Then he went the way of the rest of
them. His wife stood as much of it as she could and then left him.</p>

<p>“Knowing this dick, I told Myrtle I thought we could fix things. A
little jack would ruin MacSwain’s memory, or, if he didn’t like that, Max
could have him knocked off. She had Tim’s note threatening suicide. If
the dick would play along, the hole in Tim’s head from his own gun and
the note would smooth everything over pretty.</p>

<p>“I left Myrtle under the trees and went out to hunt for Max. He
wasn’t around. There weren’t many people there, and I could hear the hotel
orchestra still playing dance music. I couldn’t find Max, so I went back
to Myrtle. She was all worked up over another idea. She didn’t want Max
to know that she had found out that he had killed Tim. She was afraid
of him.</p>

<p>“See what I mean? She was afraid that if she and Max ever broke
off he’d put her out of the way if he knew she had enough on him to swing
him. I know how she felt. I got the same notion later, and kept just as
quiet as she did. So we figured that if it could be fixed up without his
knowing about it, so much the better. I didn’t want to show in it either.</p>

<p>“Myrtle went back alone to the group around Tim and got hold of
MacSwain. She took him off a little way and made the deal with him.
She had some dough on her. She gave him two hundred and a diamond
ring that had cost a fellow named Boyle a thousand. I thought he’d be
back for more later, but he didn’t. He shot square with her. With the
help of the letter he put over the suicide story.</p>

<p>“Noonan knew there was something fishy about the lay-out, but he
could never peg it. I think he suspected Max of having something to do
with it. But Max had an air-tight alibi—trust him for that—and I think
even Noonan finally counted him out. But Noonan never believed it happened
the way it was made to look. He broke MacSwain—kicked him off
the force.</p>

<p>“Max and Myrtle slid apart a little while after that. No row or anything—they
just slid apart. I don’t think she ever felt easy around him
again, though so far as I know he never suspected her of knowing anything.
She’s sick now, as I told you, and hasn’t got long to live. I think
she’d not so much mind telling the truth if she were asked. MacSwain’s
still hanging around town. He’d talk if there was something in it for him.
Those two have got the stuff on Max—and wouldn’t Noonan eat it up! Is
that good enough to give your stirring-up a start?”</p>

<p>“Couldn’t it have been suicide?” I asked. “With Tim Noonan getting
a last-minute bright idea to stick it on Max?”</p>

<p>“That four-flusher shoot himself? Not a chance.”</p>

<p>“Could Myrtle have shot him?”</p>

<p>“Noonan didn’t overlook that one. But she couldn’t have been a third
of the distance down the slope when the shot was fired. Tim had powdermarks
on his head, and hadn’t been shot and rolled down the slope. Myrtle’s
out.”</p>

<p>“But Max had an alibi?”</p>

<p>“Yes, indeed. He always has. He was in the hotel bar, on the other
side of the building, all the time. Four men said so. As I remember it,
they said it openly and often, long before anybody asked them. There
were other men in the bar who didn’t remember whether Max had been
there or not, but those four remembered. They’d remember anything Max
wanted remembered.”</p>

<p>Her eyes got large and then narrowed to black-fringed slits. She
leaned toward me, upsetting her glass with an elbow.</p>

<p>“Peak Murry was one of the four. He and Max are on the outs now.
Peak might tell it straight now. He’s got a pool room on Broadway.”</p>

<p>“This MacSwain, does he happen to be named Bob?” I asked. “A
bow-legged man with a long jaw like a hog’s?”</p>

<p>“Yes. You know him?”</p>

<p>“By sight. What does he do now?”</p>

<p>“A small-time grifter. What do you think of the stack-up?”</p>

<p>“Not bad. Maybe I can use it.”</p>

<p>“Then let’s talk scratch.”</p>

<p>I grinned at the greed in her eyes and said:</p>

<p>“Not just yet, sister. We’ll have to see how it works out before we
start scattering pennies around.”</p>

<p>She called me a damned nickel-nurser and reached for the gin.</p>

<p>“No more for me, thanks,” I told her, looking at my watch. “It’s getting
along toward five a. m. and I’ve got a busy day ahead.”</p>

<p>She decided she was hungry again. That reminded me that I was. It
took half an hour or more to get waffles, ham and coffee off the stove.
It took some more time to get them into our stomachs and to smoke some
cigarettes over extra cups of coffee. It was quite a bit after six when I got
ready to leave.</p>

<hr/>

<p>I went back to my hotel and got into a tub of cold water. It braced me
a lot, and I needed bracing. At forty I could get along on gin as a substitute
for sleep, but not comfortably.</p>

<p>When I had dressed I sat down and composed a document:</p>

<blockquote>

<p>Just before he died, Tim Noonan told me he had been shot
by Max Thaler. Detective Bob MacSwain heard him tell me. I
gave Detective MacSwain $200 and a diamond ring worth
$1,000 to keep quiet and make it look like suicide.</p>

</blockquote>

<p>With this document in my pocket I went downstairs, had another
breakfast that was mostly coffee, and went up to the City Hospital.</p>

<p>Visiting hours were in the afternoon, but by flourishing my Continental
Detective Agency credentials and giving everybody to understand
that an hour’s delay might cause thousands of deaths, or words to that
effect, I got to see Myrtle Jennison.</p>

<p>She was in a ward on the third floor, alone. The other four beds were
empty. She could have been a girl of twenty-five or a woman of fifty-five.
Her face was a bloated spotty mask. Lifeless yellow hair in two stringy
braids lay on the pillow beside her.</p>

<p>I waited until the nurse who had brought me up left. Then I held
my document out to the invalid and said:</p>

<p>“Will you sign this, please, Miss Jennison?”</p>

<p>She looked at me with ugly eyes that were shaded into no particular
dark color by the pads of flesh around them, then at the document, and
finally brought a shapeless fat hand from under the covers to take it.</p>

<p>She pretended it took her nearly five minutes to read the forty-two
words I had written. She let the document fall down on the covers and
asked:</p>

<p>“Where’d you get that?” Her voice was tinny, irritable.</p>

<p>“Dinah Brand sent me to you.”</p>

<p>She asked eagerly:</p>

<p>“Has she broken off with Max?”</p>

<p>“Not that I know of,” I lied. “I imagine she just wants to have this
on hand in case it should come in handy.”</p>

<p>“And get her fool throat slit. Give me a pencil.”</p>

<p>I gave her my fountain pen and held my notebook under the document,
to stiffen it while she scribbled her signature at the bottom, and to
have it in my hands as soon as she had finished. While I fanned the paper
dry she said:</p>

<p>“If that’s what she wants it’s all right with me. What do I care what
anybody does now? I’m done. Hell with them all!” She sniggered and suddenly
threw the bedclothes down to her knees, showing me a horrible
swollen body in a coarse white nightgown. “How do you like me? See, I’m
done.”</p>

<p>I pulled the covers up over her again and said:</p>

<p>“Thanks for this, Miss Jennison.”</p>

<p>“That’s all right. It’s nothing to me any more. Only”—her puffy chin
quivered—“it’s hell to die ugly as this.”</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XII</h2><p epub:type="title">A New Deal</p></hgroup>

<p>I went out to hunt for MacSwain. Neither city directory nor
telephone book told me anything. I did the pool rooms, cigar stores, speakeasies,
looking around first, then asking cautious questions. That got me
nothing. I walked the streets, looking for bowed legs. That got me nothing.
I decided to go back to my hotel, grab a nap, and resume the hunting at
night.</p>

<p>In a far corner of the lobby a man stopped hiding behind a newspaper
and came out to meet me. He had bowed legs, a hog jaw, and was MacSwain.</p>

<p>I nodded carelessly at him and walked on toward the elevators. He
followed me, mumbling:</p>

<p>“Hey, you got a minute?”</p>

<p>“Yeah, just about.” I stopped, pretending indifference.</p>

<p>“Let’s get out of sight,” he said nervously.</p>

<p>I took him up to my room. He straddled a chair and put a match in
his mouth. I sat on the side of the bed and waited for him to say something.
He chewed his match a while and began:</p>

<p>“I’m going to come clean with you, brother. I’m—”</p>

<p>“You mean you’re going to tell me you knew me when you braced
me yesterday?” I asked. “And you’re going to tell me Bush hadn’t told you
to bet on him? And you didn’t until afterwards? And you knew about his
record because you used to be a bull? And you thought if you could get me
to put it to him you could clean up a little dough playing him?”</p>

<p>“I’ll be damned if I was going to come through with that much,” he
said, “but since it’s been said I’ll put a yes to it.”</p>

<p>“Did you clean up?”</p>

<p>“I win myself six hundred iron men.” He pushed his hat back and
scratched his forehead with the chewed end of his match. “And then I lose
myself that and my own two hundred and some in a crap game. What do
you think of that? I pick up six hundred berries like shooting fish, and have
to bum four bits for breakfast.”</p>

<p>I said it was a tough break but that was the kind of a world we lived
in.</p>

<p>He said, “Uh-huh,” put the match back in his mouth, ground it some
more, and added, “That’s why I thought I’d come to see you. I used to be
in the racket myself and—”</p>

<p>“What did Noonan put the skids under you for?”</p>

<p>“Skids? What skids? I quit. I come into a piece of change when the
wife got killed in an automobile accident—insurance—and I quit.”</p>

<p>“I heard he kicked you out the time his brother shot himself.”</p>

<p>“Well, then you heard wrong. It was just after that, but you can ask
him if I didn’t quit.”</p>

<p>“It’s not that much to me. Go on telling me why you came to see
me.”</p>

<p>“I’m busted, flat. I know you’re a Continental op, and I got a pretty
good hunch what you’re up to here. I’m close to a lot that’s going on on
both sides of things in this burg. There’s things I could do for you, being
an ex-dick, knowing the ropes both ways.”</p>

<p>“You want to stool-pigeon for me?”</p>

<p>He looked me straight in the eye and said evenly:</p>

<p>“There’s no sense in a man picking out the worst name he can find
for everything.”</p>

<p>“I’ll give you something to do, MacSwain.” I took out Myrtle Jennison’s
document and passed it to him. “Tell me about that.”</p>

<p>He read it through carefully, his lips framing the words, the match
wavering up and down in his mouth. He got up, put the paper on the bed
beside me, and scowled down at it.</p>

<p>“There’s something I’ll have to find out about first,” he said, very
solemnly. “I’ll be back in a little while and give you the whole story.”</p>

<p>I laughed and told him:</p>

<p>“Don’t be silly. You know I’m not going to let you walk out on me.”</p>

<p>“I don’t know that.” He shook his head, still solemn. “Neither do
you. All you know is whether you’re going to try to stop me.”</p>

<p>“The answer’s yeah,” I said while I considered that he was fairly hard
and strong, six or seven years younger than I, and twenty or thirty pounds
lighter.</p>

<p>He stood at the foot of the bed and looked at me with solemn eyes.
I sat on the side of the bed and looked at him with whatever kind of eyes
I had at the time. We did this for nearly three minutes.</p>

<p>I used part of the time measuring the distance between us, figuring
out how, by throwing my body back on the bed and turning on my hip, I
could get my heels in his face if he jumped me. He was too close for me
to pull the gun. I had just finished this mental map-making when he
spoke:</p>

<p>“That lousy ring wasn’t worth no grand. I did swell to get two centuries
for it.”</p>

<p>“Sit down and tell me about it.”</p>

<p>He shook his head again and said:</p>

<p>“First I want to know what you’re meaning to do about it.”</p>

<p>“Cop Whisper.”</p>

<p>“I don’t mean that. I mean with me.”</p>

<p>“You’ll have to go over to the Hall with me.”</p>

<p>“I won’t.”</p>

<p>“Why not? You’re only a witness.”</p>

<p>“I’m only a witness that Noonan can hang a bribe-taking, or an accomplice
after the act rap on, or both. And he’d be tickled simple to have
the chance.”</p>

<p>This jaw-wagging didn’t seem to be leading anywhere. I said:</p>

<p>“That’s too bad. But you’re going to see him.”</p>

<p>“Try and take me.”</p>

<p>I sat up straighter and slid my right hand back to my hip.</p>

<p>He grabbed for me. I threw my body back on the bed, did the hip-spin,
swung my feet at him. It was a good trick, only it didn’t work. In his
hurry to get at me he bumped the bed aside just enough to spill me off on
the floor.</p>

<p>I landed all sprawled out on my back. I kept dragging at my gun while
I tried to roll under the bed.</p>

<p>Missing me, his lunge carried him over the low footboard, over the
side of the bed. He came down beside me, on the back of his neck, his
body somersaulting over.</p>

<p>I put the muzzle of my gun in his left eye and said:</p>

<p>“You’re making a fine pair of clowns of us. Be still while I get up or
I’ll make an opening in your head for brains to leak in.”</p>

<p>I got up, found and pocketed my document, and let him get up.</p>

<p>“Knock the dents out of your hat and put your necktie in front, so
you won’t disgrace me going through the streets,” I ordered after I had run
a hand over his clothes and found nothing that felt like a weapon. “You
can suit yourself about remembering that this gat is going to be in my
overcoat pocket, with a hand on it.”</p>

<p>He straightened his hat and tie and said:</p>

<p>“Hey, listen: I’m in this, I guess, and cutting up won’t get me nothing.
Suppose I be good. Could you forget about the tussle? See—maybe
it’d be smoother for me if they thought I come along without being
dragged.”</p>

<p>“O. K.”</p>

<p>“Thanks, brother.”</p>

<hr/>

<p>Noonan was out eating. We had to wait half an hour in his outer office.
When he came in he greeted me with the usual <i>How are you? .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. That
certainly is fine</i> .&nbsp;.&nbsp;. and the rest of it. He didn’t say anything to MacSwain—simply
eyed him sourly.</p>

<p>We went into the chief’s private office. He pulled a chair over to his
desk for me and then sat in his own, ignoring the ex-dick.</p>

<p>I gave Noonan the sick girl’s document.</p>

<p>He gave it one glance, bounced out of his chair, and smashed a fist
the size of a cantaloup into MacSwain’s face.</p>

<p>The punch carried MacSwain across the room until a wall stopped
him. The wall creaked under the strain, and a framed photograph of
Noonan and other city dignitaries welcoming somebody in spats dropped
down to the floor with the hit man.</p>

<p>The fat chief waddled over, picked up the picture and beat it to
splinters on MacSwain’s head and shoulders.</p>

<p>Noonan came back to his desk, puffing, smiling, saying cheerfully to
me:</p>

<p>“That fellow’s a rat if there ever was one.”</p>

<p>MacSwain sat up and looked around, bleeding from nose, mouth and
head.</p>

<p>Noonan roared at him:</p>

<p>“Come here, you.”</p>

<p>MacSwain said, “Yes, chief,” scrambled up and ran over to the desk.</p>

<p>Noonan said: “Come through or I’ll kill you.”</p>

<p>MacSwain said:</p>

<p>“Yes, chief. It was like she said, only that rock wasn’t worth no grand.
But she give me it and the two hundred to keep my mouth shut, because
I got there just when she asks him, ‘Who did it, Tim?’ and he says, ‘Max!’
He says it kind of loud and sharp, like he wanted to get it out before he
died, because he died right then, almost before he’d got it out. That’s the
way it was, chief, but the rock wasn’t worth no—”</p>

<p>“Damn the rock,” Noonan barked. “And stop bleeding on my rug.”</p>

<p>MacSwain hunted in his pocket for a dirty handkerchief, mopped his
nose and mouth with it, and jabbered on:</p>

<p>“That’s the way it was, chief. Everything else was like I said at the
time, only I didn’t say anything about hearing him say Max done it. I
know I hadn’t ought to—”</p>

<p>“Shut up,” Noonan said, and pressed one of the buttons on his desk.</p>

<p>A uniformed copper came in. The chief jerked a thumb at MacSwain
and said:</p>

<p>“Take this baby down cellar and let the wrecking crew work on him
before you lock him up.”</p>

<p>MacSwain started a desperate plea, “Aw, chief!” but the copper took
him away before he could get any farther.</p>

<p>Noonan stuck a cigar at me, tapped the document with another and
asked:</p>

<p>“Where’s this broad?”</p>

<p>“In the City Hospital, dying. You’ll have the ’cuter get a stiff out of
her? That one’s not so good legally—I framed it for effect. Another thing—I
hear that Peak Murry and Whisper aren’t playmates any more. Wasn’t
Murry one of his alibis?”</p>

<p>The chief said, “He was,” picked up one of his phones, said, “McGraw,”
and then: “Get hold of Peak Murry and ask him to drop in. And
have Tony Agosti picked up for that knife-throwing.”</p>

<p>He put the phone down, stood up, made a lot of cigar smoke, and
said through it:</p>

<p>“I haven’t always been on the up-and-up with you.”</p>

<p>I thought that was putting it mildly, but I didn’t say anything while
he went on:</p>

<p>“You know your way around. You know what these jobs are. There’s
this one and that one that’s got to be listened to. Just because a man’s
chief of police doesn’t mean he’s chief. Maybe you’re a lot of trouble to
somebody that can be a lot of trouble to me. Don’t make any difference if
I think you’re a right guy. I got to play with them that play with me. See
what I mean?”</p>

<p>I wagged my head to show I did.</p>

<p>“That’s the way it was,” he said. “But no more. This is something
else, a new deal. When the old woman kicked off Tim was just a lad. She
said to me, ‘Take care of him, John,’ and I promised I would. And then
Whisper murders him on account of that tramp.” He reached down and
took my hand. “See what I’m getting at? That’s a year and a half ago, and
you give me my first chance to hang it on him. I’m telling you there’s no
man in Personville that’s got a voice big enough to talk you down. Not
after today.”</p>

<p>That pleased me and I said so. We purred at each other until a lanky
man with an extremely upturned nose in the middle of a round and
freckled face was ushered in. It was Peak Murry.</p>

<p>“We were just wondering about the time when Tim died,” the chief
said when Murry had been given a chair and a cigar, “where Whisper was.
You were out to the Lake that night, weren’t you?”</p>

<p>“Yep,” Murry said and the end of his nose got sharper.</p>

<p>“With Whisper?”</p>

<p>“I wasn’t with him all the time.”</p>

<p>“Were you with him at the time of the shooting?”</p>

<p>“Nope.”</p>

<p>The chief’s greenish eyes got smaller and brighter. He asked softly:</p>

<p>“You know where he was?”</p>

<p>“Nope.”</p>

<p>The chief sighed in a thoroughly satisfied way and leaned back in his
chair.</p>

<p>“Damn it, Peak,” he said, “you told us before that you were with him
at the bar.”</p>

<p>“Yep, I did,” the lanky man admitted. “But that don’t mean nothing
except that he asked me to and I didn’t mind helping out a friend.”</p>

<p>“Meaning you don’t mind standing a perjury rap?”</p>

<p>“Don’t kid me.” Murry spit vigorously at the cuspidor. “I didn’t say
nothing in no court rooms.”</p>

<p>“How about Jerry and George Kelly and O’Brien?” the chief asked.
“Did they say they were with him just because he asked them to?”</p>

<p>“O’Brien did. I don’t know nothing about the others. I was going out
of the bar when I run into Whisper, Jerry and Kelly, and went back to
have a shot with them. Kelly told me Tim had been knocked off. Then
Whisper says, ‘It never hurts anybody to have an alibi. We were here all
the time, weren’t we?’ and he looks at O’Brien, who’s behind the bar.
O’Brien says, ‘Sure you was,’ and when Whisper looks at me I say the
same thing. But I don’t know no reasons why I’ve got to cover him up
nowadays.”</p>

<p>“And Kelly said Tim had been knocked off? Didn’t say he had been
found dead?”</p>

<p>“ ‘Knocked off’ was the words he used.”</p>

<p>The chief said:</p>

<p>“Thanks, Peak. You oughtn’t to have done like you did, but what’s
done is done. How are the kids?”</p>

<p>Murry said they were doing fine, only the baby wasn’t as fat as he’d
like to have him. Noonan phoned the prosecuting attorney’s office and
had Dart and a stenographer take Peak’s story before he left.</p>

<p>Noonan, Dart and the stenographer set out for the City Hospital to
get a complete statement from Myrtle Jennison. I didn’t go along. I decided
I needed sleep, told the chief I would see him later, and returned to
the hotel.</p>
<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIII</h2><p epub:type="title">—$200.10—</p></hgroup>


<p>I had my vest unbuttoned when the telephone bell rang.</p>

<p>It was Dinah Brand, complaining that she had been trying to get me
since ten o’clock.</p>

<p>“Have you done anything on what I told you?” she asked.</p>

<p>“I’ve been looking it over. It seems pretty good. I think maybe I’ll
crack it this afternoon.”</p>

<p>“Don’t. Hold it till I see you. Can you come up now?”</p>

<p>I looked at the vacant white bed and said, “Yes,” without much enthusiasm.</p>

<p>Another tub of cold water did me so little good that I almost fell
asleep in it.</p>

<p>Dan Rolff let me in when I rang the girl’s bell. He looked and acted
as if nothing out of the ordinary had happened the night before. Dinah
Brand came into the hall to help me off with my overcoat. She had on a
tan woolen dress with a two-inch rip in one shoulder seam.</p>

<p>She took me into the living room. She sat on the Chesterfield beside
me and said:</p>

<p>“I’m going to ask you to do something for me. You like me enough,
don’t you?”</p>

<p>I admitted that. She counted the knuckles of my left hand with a
warm forefinger and explained:</p>

<p>“I want you to not do anything more about what I told you last night.
Now wait a minute. Wait till I get through. Dan was right. I oughtn’t sell
Max out like that. It would be utterly filthy. Besides, it’s Noonan you
chiefly want, isn’t it? Well, if you’ll be a nice darling and lay off Max this
time, I’ll give you enough on Noonan to nail him forever. You’d like that
better, wouldn’t you? And you like me too much to want to take advantage
of me by using information I gave you when I was mad at what Max had
said, don’t you?”</p>

<p>“What is the dirt on Noonan?” I asked.</p>

<p>She kneaded my biceps and murmured: “You promise?”</p>

<p>“Not yet.”</p>

<p>She pouted at me and said:</p>

<p>“I’m off Max for life, on the level. You’ve got no right to make me
turn rat.”</p>

<p>“What about Noonan?”</p>

<p>“Promise first.”</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>She dug fingers into my arm and asked sharply:</p>

<p>“You’ve already gone to Noonan?”</p>

<p>“Yeah.”</p>

<p>She let go my arm, frowned, shrugged, and said gloomily:</p>

<p>“Well, how can I help it?”</p>

<p>I stood up and a voice said:</p>

<p>“Sit down.”</p>

<p>It was a hoarse whispering voice—Thaler’s.</p>

<p>I turned to see him standing in the dining room doorway, a big gun
in one of his little hands. A red-faced man with a scarred cheek stood behind
him.</p>

<p>The other doorway—opening to the hall—filled as I sat down. The
loose-mouthed chinless man I had heard Whisper call Jerry came a step
through it. He had a couple of guns. The more angular one of the blond
kids who had been in the King Street joint looked over his shoulder.</p>

<p>Dinah Brand got up from the Chesterfield, put her back to Thaler,
and addressed me. Her voice was husky with rage.</p>

<p>“This is none of my doing. He came here by himself, said he was
sorry for what he had said, and showed me how we could make a lot of
coin by turning Noonan up for you. The whole thing was a plant, but I
fell for it. Honest to Christ! He was to wait upstairs while I put it to you.
I didn’t know anything about the others. I didn’t—”</p>

<p>Jerry’s casual voice drawled:</p>

<p>“If I shoot a pin from under her, she’ll sure sit down, and maybe
shut up. O. K.?”</p>

<p>I couldn’t see Whisper. The girl was between us. He said:</p>

<p>“Not now. Where’s Dan?”</p>

<p>The angular blond youngster said:</p>

<p>“Up on the bathroom floor. I had to sap him.”</p>

<p>Dinah Brand turned around to face Thaler. Stocking seams made s’s
up the ample backs of her legs. She said:</p>

<p>“Max Thaler, you’re a lousy little—”</p>

<p>He whispered, very deliberately:</p>

<p>“Shut up and get out of the way.”</p>

<p>She surprised me by doing both, and she kept quiet while he spoke to
me:</p>

<p>“So you and Noonan are trying to paste his brother’s death on me?”</p>

<p>“It doesn’t need pasting. It’s a natural.”</p>

<p>He curved his thin lips at me and said:</p>

<p>“You’re as crooked as he is.”</p>

<p>I said:</p>

<p>“You know better. I played your side when he tried to frame you.
This time he’s got you copped to rights.”</p>

<p>Dinah Brand flared up again, waving her arms in the center of the
room, storming:</p>

<p>“Get out of here, the whole lot of you. Why should I give a God-damn
about your troubles? Get out.”</p>

<p>The blond kid who had sapped Rolff squeezed past Jerry and came
grinning into the room. He caught one of the girl’s flourished arms and
bent it behind her.</p>

<p>She twisted toward him, socked him in the belly with her other fist.
It was a very respectable wallop—man-size. It broke his grip on her arm,
sent him back a couple of steps.</p>

<p>The kid gulped a wide mouthful of air, whisked a blackjack from his
hip, and stepped in again. His grin was gone.</p>

<p>Jerry laughed what little chin he had out of sight.</p>

<p>Thaler whispered harshly: “Lay off!”</p>

<p>The kid didn’t hear him. He was snarling at the girl.</p>

<p>She watched him with a face hard as a silver dollar. She was standing
with most of her weight on her left foot. I guessed blondy was going to
stop a kick when he closed in.</p>

<p>The kid feinted a grab with his empty left hand, started the blackjack
at her face.</p>

<p>Thaler whispered, “Lay off,” again, and fired.</p>

<p>The bullet smacked blondy under the right eye, spun him around,
and dropped him backwards into Dinah Brand’s arms.</p>

<p>This looked like the time, if there was to be any.</p>

<p>In the excitement I had got my hand to my hip. Now I yanked the
gun out and snapped a cap at Thaler, trying for his shoulder.</p>

<p>That was wrong. If I had tried for a bulls-eye I would have winged
him. Chinless Jerry hadn’t laughed himself blind. He beat me to the shot.
His shot burnt my wrist, throwing me off the target. But, missing Thaler,
my slug crumpled the red-faced man behind him.</p>

<p>Not knowing how badly my wrist was nicked, I switched the gun to
my left hand.</p>

<p>Jerry had another try at me. The girl spoiled it by heaving the corpse
at him. The dead yellow head banged into his knees. I jumped for him
while he was off-balance.</p>

<p>The jump took me out of the path of Thaler’s bullet. It also tumbled
me and Jerry out into the hall, all tangled up together.</p>

<p>Jerry wasn’t tough to handle, but I had to work quick. There was
Thaler behind me. I socked Jerry twice, kicked him, butted him at least
once, and was hunting for a place to bite when he went limp under me. I
poked him again where his chin should have been—just to make sure he
wasn’t faking—and went away on hands and knees, down the hall a bit, out
of line with the door.</p>

<p>I sat on my heels against the wall, held my gun level at Thaler’s part
of the premises, and waited. I couldn’t hear anything for the moment except
blood singing in my head.</p>

<p>Dinah Brand stepped out of the door I had tumbled through, looked
at Jerry, then at me. She smiled with her tongue between her teeth, beckoned
with a jerk of her head, and returned to the living room. I followed
her cautiously.</p>

<p>Whisper stood in the center of the floor. His hands were empty and
so was his face. Except for his vicious little mouth he looked like something
displaying suits in a clothing store window.</p>

<p>Dan Rolff stood behind him, with a gun-muzzle tilted to the little
gambler’s left kidney. Rolff’s face was mostly blood. The blond kid—now
dead on the floor between Rolff and me—had sapped him plenty.</p>

<p>I grinned at Thaler and said, “Well, this is nice,” before I saw that
Rolff had another gun, centered on my chubby middle. That wasn’t so
nice. But my gun was reasonably level in my hand. I didn’t have much
worse than an even break.</p>

<p>Rolff said:</p>

<p>“Put down your pistol.”</p>

<p>I looked at Dinah, looked puzzled, I suppose. She shrugged and told
me:</p>

<p>“It seems to be Dan’s party.”</p>

<p>“Yeah? Somebody ought to tell him I don’t like to play this way.”</p>

<p>Rolff repeated: “Put down your pistol.”</p>

<p>I said disagreeably:</p>

<p>“I’m damned if I will. I’ve shed twenty pounds trying to nab this
bird, and I can spare twenty more for the same purpose.”</p>

<p>Rolff said:</p>

<p>“I’m not interested in what is between you two, and I have no intention
of giving either of you—”</p>

<p>Dinah Brand had wandered across the room. When she was behind
Rolff, I interrupted his speech by telling her:</p>

<p>“If you upset him now you’re sure of making two friends—Noonan
and me. You can’t trust Thaler any more, so there’s no use helping him.”</p>

<p>She laughed and said:</p>

<p>“Talk money, darling.”</p>

<p>“Dinah!” Rolff protested. He was caught. She was behind him and
she was strong enough to handle him. It wasn’t likely that he would shoot
her, and it wasn’t likely that anything else would keep her from doing
whatever she decided to do.</p>

<p>“A hundred dollars,” I bid.</p>

<p>“My God!” she exclaimed, “I’ve actually got a cash offer out of you.
But not enough.”</p>

<p>“Two hundred.”</p>

<p>“You’re getting reckless. But I still can’t hear you.”</p>

<p>“Try,” I said. “It’s worth that to me not to have to shoot Rolff’s gun
out of his hand, but no more than that.”</p>

<p>“You got a good start. Don’t weaken. One more bid, anyway.”</p>

<p>“Two hundred dollars and ten cents and that’s all.”</p>

<p>“You big bum,” she said, “I won’t do it.”</p>

<p>“Suit yourself.” I made a face at Thaler and cautioned him: “When
what happens happens be damned sure you keep still.”</p>

<p>Dinah cried:</p>

<p>“Wait! Are you really going to start something?”</p>

<p>“I’m going to take Thaler out with me, regardless.”</p>

<p>“Two hundred and a dime?”</p>

<p>“Yeah.”</p>

<p>“Dinah,” Rolff called without turning his face from me, “you
won’t—”</p>

<p>But she laughed, came close to his back, and wound her strong arms
around him, pulling his arms down, pinning them to his sides.</p>

<p>I shoved Thaler out of the way with my right arm, and kept my gun
on him while I yanked Rolff’s weapons out of his hands. Dinah turned
the lunger loose.</p>

<p>He took two steps toward the dining room door, said wearily, “There
is no—” and collapsed on the floor.</p>

<p>Dinah ran to him. I pushed Thaler through the hall door, past the
still sleeping Jerry, and to the alcove beneath the front stairs, where I
had seen a phone.</p>

<p>I called Noonan, told him I had Thaler, and where.</p>

<p>“Mother of God!” he said. “Don’t kill him till I get there.”</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h2><p epub:type="title">Max</p></hgroup>

<p>The news of Whisper’s capture spread quickly. When
Noonan, the coppers he had brought along, and I took the gambler and
the now conscious Jerry into the City Hall there were at least a hundred
people standing around watching us.</p>

<p>All of them didn’t look pleased. Noonan’s coppers—a shabby lot at
best—moved around with whitish strained faces. But Noonan was the
most triumphant guy west of the Mississippi. Even the bad luck he had
trying to third-degree Whisper couldn’t spoil his happiness.</p>

<p>Whisper stood up under all they could give him. He would talk to his
lawyer, he said, and to nobody else, and he stuck to it. And, as much as
Noonan hated the gambler, here was a prisoner he didn’t give the works,
didn’t turn over to the wrecking crew. Whisper had killed the chief’s
brother, and the chief hated his guts, but Whisper was still too much
somebody in Poisonville to be roughed around.</p>

<p>Noonan finally got tired of playing with his prisoner, and sent him up—the
prison was on the City Hall’s top floor—to be stowed away. I lit another
of the chief’s cigars and read the detailed statement he had got
from the woman in the hospital. There was nothing in it that I hadn’t
learned from Dinah and MacSwain.</p>

<p>The chief wanted me to come out to his house for dinner, but I lied
out of it, pretending that my wrist—now in a bandage—was bothering me.
It was really little more than a burn.</p>

<p>While we were talking about it, a pair of plain-clothes men brought
in the red-faced bird who had stopped the slug I had missed Whisper
with. It had broken a rib for him, and he had taken a back-door sneak
while the rest of us were busy. Noonan’s men had picked him up in a
doctor’s office. The chief failed to get any information out of him, and
sent him off to the hospital.</p>

<p>I got up and prepared to leave, saying:</p>

<p>“The Brand girl gave me the tip-off on this. That’s why I asked you
to keep her and Rolff out of it.”</p>

<p>The chief took hold of my left hand for the fifth or sixth time in the
past couple of hours.</p>

<p>“If you want her taken care of, that’s enough for me,” he assured me.
“But if she had a hand in turning that bastard up, you can tell her for me
that any time she wants anything, all she’s got to do is name it.”</p>

<p>I said I’d tell her that, and went over to my hotel, thinking about
that neat white bed. But it was nearly eight o’clock, and my stomach
needed attention. I went into the hotel dining room and had that fixed up.</p>

<p>Then a leather chair tempted me into stopping in the lobby while I
burnt a cigar. That led to conversation with a traveling railroad auditor
from Denver, who knew a man I knew in St. Louis. Then there was a lot
of shooting in the street.</p>

<p>We went to the door and decided that the shooting was in the vicinity
of the City Hall. I shook the auditor and moved up that way.</p>

<p>I had done two-thirds of the distance when an automobile came down
the street toward me, moving fast, leaking gun-fire from the rear.</p>

<p>I backed into an alley entrance and slid my gun loose. The car came
abreast. An arc-light brightened two faces in the front of the car. The
driver’s meant nothing to me. The upper part of the other’s was hidden
by a pulled-down hat. The lower part was Whisper’s.</p>

<p>Across the street was the entrance to another block of my alley,
lighted at the far end. Between the light and me, somebody moved just
as Whisper’s car roared past. The somebody had dodged from behind one
shadow that might have been an ash-can to another.</p>

<p>What made me forget Whisper was that the somebody’s legs had a
bowed look.</p>

<p>A load of coppers buzzed past, throwing lead at the first car.</p>

<p>I skipped across the street, into the section of alley that held a man
who might have bowed legs.</p>

<p>If he was my man, it was a fair bet he wasn’t armed. I played it that
way, moving straight up the slimy middle of the alley, looking into shadows
with eyes, ears and nose.</p>

<p>Three-quarters of a block of this, and a shadow broke away from another
shadow—a man going pell-mell away from me.</p>

<p>“Stop!” I bawled, pounding my feet after him. “Stop, or I’ll plug you,
MacSwain.”</p>

<p>He ran half a dozen strides farther and stopped, turning.</p>

<p>“Oh, it’s you,” he said, as if it made any difference who took him
back to the hoosegow.</p>

<p>“Yeah,” I confessed. “What are all you people doing wandering
around loose?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know nothing about it. Somebody dynamited the floor out
of the can. I dropped through the hole with the rest of them. There was
some mugs standing off the bulls. I made the back-trotters with one bunch.
Then we split, and I was figuring on cutting over and making the hills. I
didn’t have nothing to do with it. I just went along when she blew open.”</p>

<p>“Whisper was pinched this evening,” I told him.</p>

<p>“Hell! Then that’s it. Noonan had ought to know he’d never keep
that guy screwed up—not in this burg.”</p>

<p>We were standing still in the alley where MacSwain had stopped
running.</p>

<p>“You know what he was pinched for?” I asked.</p>

<p>“Uh-huh, for killing Tim.”</p>

<p>“You know who killed Tim?”</p>

<p>“Huh? Sure, he did.”</p>

<p>“You did.”</p>

<p>“Huh? What’s the matter? You simple?”</p>

<p>“There’s a gun in my left hand,” I warned him.</p>

<p>“But look here—didn’t he tell the broad that Whisper done it?
What’s the matter with you?”</p>

<p>“He didn’t say <i>Whisper</i>. I’ve heard women call Thaler <i>Max</i>, but I’ve
never heard a man here call him anything but <i>Whisper</i>. Tim didn’t say
<i>Max</i>. He said <i>MacS</i>—the first part of <i>MacSwain</i>—and died before he could
finish it. Don’t forget about the gun.”</p>

<p>“What would I have killed him for? He was after Whisper’s—”</p>

<p>“I haven’t got around to that yet,” I admitted, “but let’s see: You
and your wife had busted up. Tim was a ladies’ man, wasn’t he? Maybe
there’s something there. I’ll have to look it up. What started me thinking
about you was that you never tried to get any more money out of the girl.”</p>

<p>“Cut it out,” he begged. “You know there ain’t any sense to it. What
would I have hung around afterwards for? I’d have been out getting an
alibi, like Whisper.”</p>

<p>“Why? You were a dick then. Close by was the spot for you—to see
that everything went right—handle it yourself.”</p>

<p>“You know damned well it don’t hang together, don’t make sense.
Cut it out, for God’s sake.”</p>

<p>“I don’t mind how goofy it is,” I said. “It’s something to put to Noonan
when we get back. He’s likely all broken up over Whisper’s crush-out.
This will take his mind off it.”</p>

<p>MacSwain got down on his knees in the muddy alley and cried:</p>

<p>“Oh, Christ, no! He’d croak me with his hands.”</p>

<p>“Get up and stop yelling,” I growled. “Now will you give it to me
straight?”</p>

<p>He whined: “He’d croak me with his hands.”</p>

<p>“Suit yourself. If you won’t talk, I will, to Noonan. If you’ll come
through to me, I’ll do what I can for you.”</p>

<p>“What can you do?” he asked hopelessly, and started sniveling again.
“How do I know you’ll try to do anything?”</p>

<p>I risked a little truth on him:</p>

<p>“You said you had a hunch what I’m up to here in Poisonville. Then
you ought to know that it’s my play to keep Noonan and Whisper split.
Letting Noonan think Whisper killed Tim will keep them split. But if you
don’t want to play with me, come on, we’ll play with Noonan.”</p>

<p>“You mean you won’t tell him?” he asked eagerly. “You promise?”</p>

<p>“I promise you nothing,” I said. “Why should I? I’ve got you with
your pants down. Talk to me or Noonan. And make up your mind quick.
I’m not going to stand here all night.”</p>

<p>He made up his mind to talk to me.</p>

<p>“I don’t know how much you know, but it was like you said, my wife
fell for Tim. That’s what put me on the tramp. You can ask anybody if I
wasn’t a good guy before that. I was this way: what she wanted I wanted
her to have. Mostly what she wanted was tough on me. But I couldn’t be
any other way. We’d have been a damned sight better off if I could. So I
let her move out and put in divorce papers, so she could marry him, thinking
he meant to.</p>

<p>“Pretty soon I begin to hear he’s chasing this Myrtle Jennison. I
couldn’t go that. I’d given him his chance with Helen, fair and square.
Now he was giving her the air for this Myrtle. I wasn’t going to stand for
that. Helen wasn’t no hanky-panky. It was accidental, though, running into
him at the Lake that night. When I saw him go down to them summer
houses I went after him. That looked like a good quiet place to have it
out.</p>

<p>“I guess we’d both had a little something to drink. Anyway, we had
it hot and heavy. When it got too hot for him, he pulled the gun. He was
yellow. I grabbed it, and in the tussle it went off. I swear to God I didn’t
shoot him except like that. It went off while the both of us had our hands
on it. I beat it back in some bushes. But when I got in the bushes I could
hear him moaning and talking. There was people coming—a girl running
down from the hotel, that Myrtle Jennison.</p>

<p>“I wanted to go back and hear what Tim was saying, so I’d know
where I stood, but I was leery of being the first one there. So I had to wait
till the girl got to him, listening all the time to his squawking, but too far
away to make it out. When she got to him, I ran over and got there just as
he died trying to say my name.</p>

<p>“I didn’t think about that being Whisper’s name till she propositioned
me with the suicide letter, the two hundred, and the rock. I’d just
been stalling around, pretending to get the job lined up—being on the
force then—and trying to find out where I stood. Then she makes the play
and I know I’m sitting pretty. And that’s the way it went till you started
digging it up again.”</p>

<p>He slopped his feet up and down in the mud and added:</p>

<p>“Next week my wife got killed—an accident. Uh-huh, an accident.
She drove the Ford square in front of No. 6 where it comes down the long
grade from Tanner and stopped it there.”</p>

<p>“Is Mock Lake in this county?” I asked.</p>

<p>“No, Boulder County.”</p>

<p>“That’s out of Noonan’s territory. Suppose I take you over there and
hand you to the sheriff?”</p>

<p>“No. He’s Senator Keefer’s son-in-law—Tom Cook. I might as well be
here. Noonan could get to me through Keefer.”</p>

<p>“If it happened the way you say, you’ve got at least an even chance of
beating the rap in court.”</p>

<p>“They won’t give me a chance. I’d have stood it if there’d been a
chance in the world of getting an even break—but not with them.”</p>

<p>“We’re going back to the Hall,” I said. “Keep your mouth shut.”</p>

<hr/>

<p>Noonan was waddling up and down the floor, cursing the half a dozen
bulls who stood around wishing they were somewhere else.</p>

<p>“Here’s something I found roaming around,” I said, pushing MacSwain
forward.</p>

<p>Noonan knocked the ex-detective down, kicked him, and told one of
the coppers to take him away.</p>

<p>Somebody called Noonan on the phone. I slipped out without saying,
“Good-night,” and walked back to the hotel.</p>

<p>Off to the north some guns popped.</p>

<p>A group of three men passed me, shifty-eyed, walking pigeon-toed.</p>

<p>A little farther along, another man moved all the way over to the
curb to give me plenty of room to pass. I didn’t know him and didn’t suppose
he knew me.</p>

<p>A lone shot sounded not far away.</p>

<p>As I reached the hotel, a battered black touring car went down the
street, hitting fifty at least, crammed to the curtains with men.</p>

<p>I grinned after it. Poisonville was beginning to boil out under the lid,
and I felt so much like a native that even the memory of my very un-nice
part in the boiling didn’t keep me from getting twelve solid end-to-end
hours of sleep.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XV</h2><p epub:type="title">Cedar Hill Inn</p></hgroup>

<p>Mickey Linehan used the telephone to wake me a little
after noon.</p>

<p>“We’re here,” he told me. “Where’s the reception committee?”</p>

<p>“Probably stopped to get a rope. Check your bags and come up to the
hotel. Room 537. Don’t advertise your visit.”</p>

<p>I was dressed when they arrived.</p>

<p>Mickey Linehan was a big slob with sagging shoulders and a shapeless
body that seemed to be coming apart at all its joints. His ears stood out
like red wings, and his round red face usually wore the meaningless smirk
of a half-wit. He looked like a comedian and was.</p>

<p>Dick Foley was a boy-sized Canadian with a sharp irritable face. He
wore high heels to increase his height, perfumed his handkerchiefs and
saved all the words he could.</p>

<p>They were both good operatives.</p>

<p>“What did the Old Man tell you about the job?” I asked when we
had settled into seats. The Old Man was the manager of the Continental’s
San Francisco branch. He was also known as Pontius Pilate, because he
smiled pleasantly when he sent us out to be crucified on suicidal jobs. He
was a gentle, polite, elderly person with no more warmth in him than a
hangman’s rope. The Agency wits said he could spit icicles in July.</p>

<p>“He didn’t seem to know much what it was all about,” Mickey said,
“except that you had wired for help. He said he hadn’t got any reports
from you for a couple of days.”</p>

<p>“The chances are he’ll wait a couple more. Know anything about this
Personville?”</p>

<p>Dick shook his head. Mickey said:</p>

<p>“Only that I’ve heard parties call it Poisonville like they meant it.”</p>

<p>I told them what I knew and what I had done. The telephone bell
interrupted my tale in the last quarter.</p>

<p>Dinah Brand’s lazy voice:</p>

<p>“Hello! How’s the wrist?”</p>

<p>“Only a burn. What do you think of the crush-out?”</p>

<p>“It’s not my fault,” she said. “I did my part. If Noonan couldn’t hold
him, that’s just too bad. I’m coming downtown to buy a hat this afternoon.
I thought I’d drop in and see you for a couple of minutes if you’re
going to be there.”</p>

<p>“What time?”</p>

<p>“Oh, around three.”</p>

<p>“Right, I’ll expect you, and I’ll have that two hundred and a dime I
owe you.”</p>

<p>“Do,” she said. “That’s what I’m coming in for. Ta-ta.”</p>

<p>I went back to my seat and my story.</p>

<p>When I had finished, Mickey Linehan whistled and said:</p>

<p>“No wonder you’re scared to send in any reports. The Old Man
wouldn’t do much if he knew what you’ve been up to, would he?”</p>

<p>“If it works out the way I want it to, I won’t have to report all the
distressing details,” I said. “It’s right enough for the Agency to have rules
and regulations, but when you’re out on a job you’ve got to do it the best
way you can. And anybody that brings any ethics to Poisonville is going to
get them all rusty. A report is no place for the dirty details, anyway, and
I don’t want you birds to send any writing back to San Francisco without
letting me see it first.”</p>

<p>“What kind of crimes have you got for us to pull?” Mickey asked.</p>

<p>“I want you to take Pete the Finn. Dick will take Lew Yard. You’ll
have to play it the way I’ve been playing—do what you can when you can.
I’ve an idea that the pair of them will try to make Noonan let Whisper
alone. I don’t know what he’ll do. He’s shifty as hell and he does want to
even up his brother’s killing.”</p>

<p>“After I take this Finnish gent,” Mickey said, “what do I do with
him? I don’t want to brag about how dumb I am, but this job is plain as
astronomy to me. I understand everything about it except what you have
done and why, and what you’re trying to do and how.”</p>

<p>“You can start off by shadowing him. I’ve got to have a wedge that
can be put between Pete and Yard, Yard and Noonan, Pete and Noonan,
Pete and Thaler, or Yard and Thaler. If we can smash things up enough—break
the combination—they’ll have their knives in each other’s backs, doing
our work for us. The break between Thaler and Noonan is a starter.
But it’ll sag on us if we don’t help it along.</p>

<p>“I could buy more dope on the whole lot from Dinah Brand. But
there’s no use taking anybody into court, no matter what you’ve got on
them. They own the courts, and, besides, the courts are too slow for us
now. I’ve got myself tangled up in something and as soon as the Old Man
smells it—and San Francisco isn’t far enough away to fool his nose—he’s
going to be sitting on the wire, asking for explanations. I’ve got to have results
to hide the details under. So evidence won’t do. What we’ve got to
have is dynamite.”</p>

<p>“What about our respected client, Mr. Elihu Willsson?” Mickey
asked. “What are you planning to do with or to him?”</p>

<p>“Maybe ruin him, maybe club him into backing us up. I don’t care
which. You’d better stay at the Hotel Person, Mickey, and Dick can go to
the National. Keep apart, and, if you want to keep me from being fired,
burn the job up before the Old Man tumbles. Better write these down.”</p>

<p>I gave them names, descriptions, and addresses when I had them,
of Elihu Willsson; Stanley Lewis, his secretary; Dinah Brand; Dan Rolff;
Noonan; Max Thaler, alias Whisper; his right-hand man, the chinless
Jerry; Mrs. Donald Willsson; Lewis’ daughter, who had been Donald
Willsson’s secretary; and Bill Quint, Dinah’s radical ex-boy-friend.</p>

<p>“Now hop to it,” I said. “And don’t kid yourselves that there’s any
law in Poisonville except what you make for yourself.”</p>

<p>Mickey said I’d be surprised how many laws he could get along without.
Dick said: “So long,” and they departed.</p>

<hr/>

<p>After breakfast I went over to the City Hall.</p>

<p>Noonan’s greenish eyes were bleary, as if they hadn’t been sleeping,
and his face had lost some of its color. He pumped my hand up and down
as enthusiastically as ever, and the customary amount of cordiality was in
his voice and manner.</p>

<p>“Any line on Whisper?” I asked when we had finished the glad-handing.</p>

<p>“I think I’ve got something.” He looked at the clock on the wall and
then at his phone. “I’m expecting word any minute. Sit down.”</p>

<p>“Who else got away?”</p>

<p>“Jerry Hooper and Tony Agosti are the only other ones still out. We
picked up the rest. Jerry is Whisper’s man-Friday, and the wop’s one of
his mob. He’s the bozo that put the knife in Ike Bush the night of the
fight.”</p>

<p>“Any more of Whisper’s mob in?”</p>

<p>“No. We just had the three of them, except Buck Wallace, the fellow
you potted. He’s in the hospital.”</p>

<p>The chief looked at the wall clock again, and at his watch. It was
exactly two o’clock. He turned to the phone. It rang. He grabbed it, said:</p>

<p>“Noonan talking.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Yes.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Yes.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Yes.&nbsp;.&nbsp;.&nbsp;. Right.”</p>

<p>He pushed the phone aside and played a tune on the row of pearl
buttons on his desk. The office filled up with coppers.</p>

<p>“Cedar Hill Inn,” he said. “You follow me out with your detail,
Bates. Terry, shoot out Broadway and hit the dump from behind. Pick
up the boys on traffic duty as you go along. It’s likely we’ll need everybody
we can get. Duffy, take yours out Union Street and around by the old
mine road. McGraw will hold headquarters down. Get hold of everybody
you can and send them after us. Jump!”</p>

<p>He grabbed his hat and went after them, calling over his thick shoulder
to me:</p>

<p>“Come on, man, this is the kill.”</p>

<p>I followed him down to the department garage, where the engines of
half a dozen cars were roaring. The chief sat beside his driver. I sat in
back with four detectives.</p>

<p>Men scrambled into the other cars. Machine-guns were unwrapped.
Arm-loads of rifles and riot-guns were distributed, and packages of ammunition.</p>

<p>The chief’s car got away first, off with a jump that hammered our
teeth together. We missed the garage door by half an inch, chased a couple
of pedestrians diagonally across the sidewalk, bounced off the curb
into the roadway, missed a truck as narrowly as we had missed the door,
and dashed out King Street with our siren wide open.</p>

<p>Panicky automobiles darted right and left, regardless of traffic rules,
to let us through. It was a lot of fun.</p>

<p>I looked back, saw another police car following us, a third turning
into Broadway. Noonan chewed a cold cigar and told the driver:</p>

<p>“Give her a bit more, Pat.”</p>

<p>Pat twisted us around a frightened woman’s coupé, put us through
a slot between street car and laundry wagon—a narrow slot that we
couldn’t have slipped through if our car hadn’t been so smoothly enameled—and
said:</p>

<p>“All right, but the brakes ain’t no good.”</p>

<p>“That’s nice,” the gray-mustached sleuth on my left said. He didn’t
sound sincere.</p>

<p>Out of the center of the city there wasn’t much traffic to bother us,
but the paving was rougher. It was a nice half-hour’s ride, with everybody
getting a chance to sit in everybody else’s lap. The last ten minutes of it
was over an uneven road that had hills enough to keep us from forgetting
what Pat had said about the brakes.</p>

<p>We wound up at a gate topped by a shabby electric sign that had
said <i>Cedar Hill Inn</i> before it lost its globes. The roadhouse, twenty feet
behind the gate, was a squat wooden building painted a moldy green
and chiefly surrounded by rubbish. Front door and windows were closed,
blank.</p>

<p>We followed Noonan out of the car. The machine that had been
trailing us came into sight around a bend in the road, slid to rest beside
ours, and unloaded its cargo of men and weapons.</p>

<p>Noonan ordered this and that.</p>

<p>A trio of coppers went around each side of the building. Three others,
including a machine-gunner, remained by the gate. The rest of us
walked through tin cans, bottles, and ancient newspaper to the front of
the house.</p>

<p>The gray-mustached detective who had sat beside me in the car carried
a red ax. We stepped up on the porch.</p>

<p>Noise and fire came out under a window sill.</p>

<p>The gray-mustached detective fell down, hiding the ax under his
corpse.</p>

<p>The rest of us ran away.</p>

<p>I ran with Noonan. We hid in the ditch on the Inn side of the road.
It was deep enough, and banked high enough, to let us stand almost erect
without being targets.</p>

<p>The chief was excited.</p>

<p>“What luck!” he said happily. “He’s here, by God, he’s here!”</p>

<p>“That shot came from under the sill,” I said. “Not a bad trick.”</p>

<p>“We’ll spoil it, though,” he said cheerfully. “We’ll sieve the dump.
Duffy ought to be pulling up on the other road by now, and Terry Shane
won’t be many minutes behind him. Hey, Donner!” he called to a man
who was peeping around a boulder. “Swing around back and tell Duffy
and Shane to start closing in as soon as they come, letting fly with all they
got. Where’s Kimble?”</p>

<p>The peeper jerked a thumb toward a tree beyond him. We could
see only the upper part of it from our ditch.</p>

<p>“Tell him to set up his mill and start grinding,” Noonan ordered.
“Low, across the front, ought to do it like cutting cheese.”</p>

<p>The peeper disappeared.</p>

<p>Noonan went up and down the ditch, risking his noodle over the top
now and then for a look around, once in a while calling or gesturing to
his men.</p>

<p>He came back, sat on his heels beside me, gave me a cigar, and lit
one for himself.</p>

<p>“It’ll do,” he said complacently. “Whisper won’t have a chance. He’s
done.”</p>

<p>The machine-gun by the tree fired, haltingly, experimentally, eight
or ten shots. Noonan grinned and let a smoke ring float out of his mouth.
The machine-gun settled down to business, grinding out metal like the
busy little death factory it was. Noonan blew another smoke ring and said:</p>

<p>“That’s exactly what’ll do it.”</p>

<p>I agreed that it ought to. We leaned against the clay bank and
smoked while, farther away, another machine-gun got going, and then a
third. Irregularly, rifles, pistols, shot-guns joined in. Noonan nodded approvingly
and said:</p>

<p>“Five minutes of that will let him know there’s a hell.”</p>

<p>When the five minutes were up I suggested a look at the remains.
I gave him a boost up the bank and scrambled up after him.</p>

<p>The roadhouse was as bleak and empty-looking as before, but more
battered. No shots came from it. Plenty were going into it.</p>

<p>“What do you think?” Noonan asked.</p>

<p>“If there’s a cellar there might be a mouse alive in it.”</p>

<p>“Well, we could finish him afterwards.”</p>

<p>He took a whistle out of his pocket and made a lot of noise. He
waved his fat arms, and the gun-fire began dwindling. We had to wait
for the word to go all the way around.</p>

<p>Then we crashed the door.</p>

<p>The first floor was ankle-deep with booze that was still gurgling from
bullet holes in the stacked-up cases and barrels that filled most of the
house.</p>

<p>Dizzy with the fumes of spilled hooch, we waded around until we
had found four dead bodies and no live ones. The four were swarthy
foreign-looking men in laborers’ clothes. Two of them were practically
shot to pieces.</p>

<p>Noonan said:</p>

<p>“Leave them here and get out.”</p>

<p>His voice was cheerful, but in a flashlight’s glow his eyes showed
white-ringed with fear.</p>

<p>We went out gladly, though I did hesitate long enough to pocket an
unbroken bottle labeled <i>Dewar</i>.</p>

<p>A khaki-dressed copper was tumbling off a motorcycle at the gate.
He yelled at us:</p>

<p>“The First National’s been stuck up.”</p>

<p>Noonan cursed savagely, bawled:</p>

<p>“He’s foxed us, damn him! Back to town, everybody.”</p>

<p>Everybody except us who had ridden with the chief beat it for the
machines. Two of them took the dead detective with them.</p>

<p>Noonan looked at me out of his eye-corners and said:</p>

<p>“This is a tough one, no fooling.”</p>

<p>I said, “Well,” shrugged, and sauntered over to his car, where the
driver was sitting at the wheel. I stood with my back to the house, talking
to Pat. I don’t remember what we talked about. Presently Noonan and
the other sleuths joined us.</p>

<p>Only a little flame showed through the open roadhouse door before
we passed out of sight around the bend in the road.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h2><p epub:type="title">Exit Jerry</p></hgroup>

<p>There was a mob around the First National Bank. We
pushed through it to the door, where we found sour-faced McGraw.</p>

<p>“Was six of them, masked,” he reported to the chief as we went inside.
“They hit it about two-thirty. Five of them got away clean with the
jack. The watchman here dropped one of them, Jerry Hooper. He’s over
on the bench, cold. We got the roads blocked, and I wired around, if it
ain’t too late. Last seen of them was when they made the turn into King
Street, in a black Lincoln.”</p>

<p>We went over to look at the dead Jerry, lying on one of the lobby
benches with a brown robe over him. The bullet had gone in under his
left shoulder blade.</p>

<p>The bank watchman, a harmless looking old duffer, pushed up his
chest and told us about it:</p>

<p>“There wasn’t no chance to do nothing at first. They were in ’fore
anybody knew anything. And maybe they didn’t work fast. Right down
the line, scooping it up. No chance to do anything then. But I says to
myself, ‘All righty, young fellows, you’ve got it all your own way now, but
wait till you try to leave.’</p>

<p>“And I was as good as my word, you bet you. I runs right to the
door after them and cut loose with the old firearm. I got that fellow just
as he was stepping into the car. I bet you I’d of got more of them if I’d
of had more cartridges, because it’s kind of hard shooting down like that,
standing in the—”</p>

<p>Noonan stopped the monologue by patting the old duffer’s back till
his lungs were empty, telling him, “That certainly is fine. That certainly
is fine.”</p>

<p>McGraw pulled the robe up over the dead man again and growled:</p>

<p>“Nobody can identify anybody. But with Jerry on it, it’s a cinch it
was Whisper’s caper.”</p>

<p>The chief nodded happily and said:</p>

<p>“I’ll leave it in your hands, Mac. Going to poke around here, or going
back to the Hall with me?” he asked me.</p>

<p>“Neither. I’ve got a date, and I want to get into dry shoes.”</p>

<hr/>

<p>Dinah Brand’s little Marmon was standing in front of the hotel. I didn’t
see her. I went up to my room, leaving the door unlocked. I had got my
hat and coat off when she came in without knocking.</p>

<p>“My God, you keep a boozy smelling room,” she said.</p>

<p>“It’s my shoes. Noonan took me wading in rum.”</p>

<p>She crossed to the window, opened it, sat on the sill, and asked:</p>

<p>“What was that for?”</p>

<p>“He thought he was going to find your Max out in a dump called
Cedar Hill Inn. So we went out there, shot the joint silly, murdered some
dagoes, spilled gallons of liquor, and left the place burning.”</p>

<p>“Cedar Hill Inn? I thought it had been closed up for a year or more.”</p>

<p>“It looked it, but it was somebody’s warehouse.”</p>

<p>“But you didn’t find Max there?” she asked.</p>

<p>“While we were there he seems to have been knocking over Elihu’s
First National Bank.”</p>

<p>“I saw that,” she said. “I had just come out of Bengren’s, the store
two doors away. I had just got in my car when I saw a big boy backing out
of the bank, carrying a sack and a gun, with a black handkerchief over
his face.”</p>

<p>“Was Max with them?”</p>

<p>“No, he wouldn’t be. He’d send Jerry and the boys. That’s what he
has them for. Jerry was there. I knew him as soon as he got out of the
car, in spite of the black handkerchief. They all had black ones. Four of
them came out of the bank, running down to the car at the curb. Jerry
and another fellow were in the car. When the four came across the sidewalk,
Jerry jumped out and went to meet them. That’s when the shooting
started and Jerry dropped. The others jumped in the bus and lit out. How
about that dough you owe me?”</p>

<p>I counted out ten twenty-dollar bills and a dime. She left the window
to come for them.</p>

<p>“That’s for pulling Dan off, so you could cop Max,” she said when
she had stowed the money away in her bag. “Now how about what I was
to get for showing you where you could turn up the dope on his killing
Tim Noonan?”</p>

<p>“You’ll have to wait till he’s indicted. How do I know the dope’s
any good?”</p>

<p>She frowned and asked:</p>

<p>“What do you do with all the money you don’t spend?” Her face
brightened. “You know where Max is now?”</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>“What’s it worth to know?”</p>

<p>“Nothing.”</p>

<p>“I’ll tell you for a hundred bucks.”</p>

<p>“I wouldn’t want to take advantage of you that way.”</p>

<p>“I’ll tell you for fifty bucks.”</p>

<p>I shook my head.</p>

<p>“Twenty-five.”</p>

<p>“I don’t want him,” I said. “I don’t care where he is. Why don’t you
peddle the news to Noonan?”</p>

<p>“Yes, and try to collect. Do you only perfume yourself with booze,
or is there any for drinking purposes?”</p>

<p>“Here’s a bottle of so-called Dewar that I picked up at Cedar Hill
this afternoon. There’s a bottle of King George in my bag. What’s your
choice?”</p>

<p>She voted for King George. We had a drink apiece, straight, and I
said:</p>

<p>“Sit down and play with it while I change clothes.”</p>

<p>When I came out of the bathroom twenty-five minutes later she was
sitting at the secretary, smoking a cigarette and studying a memoranda
book that had been in a side pocket of my gladstone bag.</p>

<p>“I guess these are the expenses you’ve charged up on other cases,”
she said without looking up. “I’m damned if I can see why you can’t be
more liberal with me. Look, here’s a six-hundred-dollar item marked <i>Inf.</i>
That’s information you bought from somebody, isn’t it? And here’s a hundred
and fifty below it—<i>Top</i>—whatever that is. And here’s another day
when you spent nearly a thousand dollars.”</p>

<p>“They must be telephone numbers,” I said, taking the book from
her. “Where were you raised? Fanning my baggage!”</p>

<p>“I was raised in a convent,” she told me. “I won the good behavior
prize every year I was there. I thought little girls who put extra spoons of
sugar in their chocolate went to hell for gluttony. I didn’t even know there
was such a thing as profanity until I was eighteen. The first time I heard
any I damned near fainted.” She spit on the rug in front of her, tilted her
chair back, put her crossed feet on my bed, and asked: “What do you
think of that?”</p>

<p>I pushed her feet off the bed and said:</p>

<p>“I was raised in a water-front saloon. Keep your saliva off my floor
or I’ll toss you out on your neck.”</p>

<p>“Let’s have another drink first. Listen, what’ll you give me for the
inside story of how the boys didn’t lose anything building the City Hall—the
story that was in the papers I sold Donald Willsson?”</p>

<p>“That doesn’t click with me. Try another.”</p>

<p>“How about why the first Mrs. Lew Yard was sent to the insane asylum?”</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>“King, our sheriff, eight thousand dollars in debt four years ago, now
the owner of as nice a collection of downtown business blocks as you’d
want to see. I can’t give you all of it, but I can show you where to get it.”</p>

<p>“Keep trying,” I encouraged her.</p>

<p>“No. You don’t want to buy anything. You’re just hoping you’ll pick
up something for nothing. This isn’t bad Scotch. Where’d you get it?”</p>

<p>“Brought it from San Francisco with me.”</p>

<p>“What’s the idea of not wanting any of this information I’m offering?
Think you can get it cheaper?”</p>

<p>“Information of that kind’s not much good to me now. I’ve got to
move quick. I need dynamite—something to blow them apart.”</p>

<p>She laughed and jumped up, her big eyes sparkling.</p>

<p>“I’ve got one of Lew Yard’s cards. Suppose we sent the bottle of
Dewar you copped to Pete with the card. Wouldn’t he take it as a declaration
of war? If Cedar Hill was a liquor cache, it was Pete’s. Wouldn’t
the bottle and Lew’s card make him think Noonan had knocked the place
over under orders?”</p>

<p>I considered it and said:</p>

<p>“Too crude. It wouldn’t fool him. Besides, I’d just as leave have Pete
and Lew both against the chief at this stage.”</p>

<p>She pouted and said:</p>

<p>“You think you know everything. You’re just hard to get along with.
Take me out tonight? I’ve got a new outfit that’ll knock them cockeyed.”</p>

<p>“Yeah.”</p>

<p>“Come up for me around eight.”</p>

<p>She patted my cheek with a warm hand, said, “Ta-ta,” and went out
as the telephone bell began jingling.</p>

<hr/>

<p>“My chinch and Dick’s are together at your client’s joint,” Mickey Linehan
reported over the wire. “Mine’s been generally busier than a hustler
with two bunks, though I don’t know what the score is yet. Anything
new?”</p>

<p>I said there wasn’t and went into conference with myself across the
bed, trying to guess what would come of Noonan’s attack on Cedar Hill
Inn and Whisper’s on the First National Bank. I would have given something
for ability to hear what was being said up at old Elihu’s house by
him, Pete the Finn, and Lew Yard. But I hadn’t that ability, and I was
never much good at guessing, so after half an hour I stopped tormenting
my brain and took a nap.</p>

<p>It was nearly seven o’clock when I came out of the nap. I washed,
dressed, loaded my pockets with a gun and a pint flask of Scotch, and
went up to Dinah’s.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVII</h2><p epub:type="title">Reno</p></hgroup>

<p>She took me into her living room, backed away from me,
revolved, and asked me how I liked the new dress. I said I liked it. She
explained that the color was rose beige and that the dinguses on the side
were something or other, winding up:</p>

<p>“And you really think I look good in it?”</p>

<p>“You always look good,” I said. “Lew Yard and Pete the Finn went
calling on old Elihu this afternoon.”</p>

<p>She made a face at me and said:</p>

<p>“You don’t give a damn about my dress. What did they do there?”</p>

<p>“A pow-wow, I suppose.”</p>

<p>She looked at me through her lashes and asked:</p>

<p>“Don’t you really know where Max is?”</p>

<p>Then I did. There was no use admitting I hadn’t known all along. I
said:</p>

<p>“At Willsson’s, probably, but I haven’t been interested enough to
make sure.”</p>

<p>“That’s goofy of you. He’s got reasons for not liking you and me.
Take mama’s advice and nail him quick, if you like living and like having
mama live too.”</p>

<p>I laughed and said:</p>

<p>“You don’t know the worst of it. Max didn’t kill Noonan’s brother.
Tim didn’t say <i>Max</i>. He tried to say <i>MacSwain</i>, and died before he could
finish.”</p>

<p>She grabbed my shoulders and tried to shake my hundred and ninety
pounds. She was almost strong enough to do it.</p>

<p>“God damn you!” Her breath was hot in my face. Her face was white
as her teeth. Rouge stood out sharply like red labels pasted on her mouth
and cheeks. “If you’ve framed him and made me frame him, you’ve got
to kill him—now.”</p>

<p>I don’t like being manhandled, even by young women who look like
something out of mythology when they’re steamed up. I took her hands
off my shoulders, and said:</p>

<p>“Stop bellyaching. You’re still alive.”</p>

<p>“Yes, still. But I know Max better than you do. I know how much
chance anybody that frames him has got of staying alive long. It would
be bad enough if we had got him right, but—”</p>

<p>“Don’t make so much fuss over it. I’ve framed my millions and nothing’s
happened to me. Get your hat and coat and we’ll feed. You’ll feel
better then.”</p>

<p>“You’re crazy if you think I’m going out. Not with that—”</p>

<p>“Stop it, sister. If he’s that dangerous he’s just as likely to get you
here as anywhere. So what difference does it make?”</p>

<p>“It makes a—You know what you’re going to do? You’re going to
stay here until Max is put out of the way. It’s your fault and you’ve got
to look out for me. I haven’t even got Dan. He’s in the hospital.”</p>

<p>“I can’t,” I said. “I’ve got work to do. You’re all burnt up over nothing.
Max has probably forgotten all about you by now. Get your hat and
coat. I’m starving.”</p>

<p>She put her face close to mine again, and her eyes looked as if they
had found something horrible in mine.</p>

<p>“Oh, you’re rotten!” she said. “You don’t give a damn what happens
to me. You’re using me as you use the others—that dynamite you wanted.
I trusted you.”</p>

<p>“You’re dynamite, all right, but the rest of it’s kind of foolish. You
look a lot better when you’re happy. Your features are heavy. Anger makes
them downright brutal. I’m starving, sister.”</p>

<p>“You’ll eat here,” she said. “You’re not going to get me out after
dark.”</p>

<p>She meant it. She swapped the rose beige dress for an apron, and
took inventory of the ice box. There were potatoes, lettuce, canned soup
and half a fruit cake. I went out and got a couple of steaks, rolls, asparagus,
and tomatoes.</p>

<p>When I came back she was mixing gin, vermouth and orange bitters
in a quart shaker, not leaving a lot of space for them to move around in.</p>

<p>“Did you see anything?” she asked.</p>

<p>I sneered at her in a friendly way. We carried the cocktails into the
dining room and played bottoms-up while the meal cooked. The drinks
cheered her a lot. By the time we sat down to the food she had almost
forgotten her fright. She wasn’t a very good cook, but we ate as if she
were.</p>

<p>We put a couple of gin-gingerales in on top the dinner.</p>

<p>She decided she wanted to go places and do things. No lousy little
runt could keep her cooped up, because she had been as square with him
as anybody could be until he got nasty over nothing, and if he didn’t like
what she did he could go climb trees or jump in lakes, and we’d go out to
the Silver Arrow where she had meant to take me, because she had promised
Reno she’d show up at his party, and by God she would, and anybody
who thought she wouldn’t was crazy as a pet cuckoo, and what did I think
of that?</p>

<p>“Who’s Reno?” I asked while she tied herself tighter in the apron
by pulling the strings the wrong way.</p>

<p>“Reno Starkey. You’ll like him. He’s a right guy. I promised him I’d
show at his celebration and that’s just what I’ll do.”</p>

<p>“What’s he celebrating?”</p>

<p>“What the hell’s the matter with this lousy apron? He was sprung
this afternoon.”</p>

<p>“Turn around and I’ll unwind you. What was he in for? Stand still.”</p>

<p>“Blowing a safe six or seven months ago—Turlock’s, the jeweler. Reno,
Put Collings, Blackie Whalen, Hank O’Marra, and a little lame guy called
Step-and-a-Half. They had plenty of cover—Lew Yard—but the jewelers’
association dicks tied the job to them last week. So Noonan had to go
through the motions. It doesn’t mean anything. They got out on bail at
five o’clock this afternoon, and that’s the last anybody will ever hear about
it. Reno’s used to it. He was already out on bail for three other capers.
Suppose you mix another little drink while I’m inserting myself in the
dress.”</p>

<hr/>

<p>The Silver Arrow was half-way between Personville and Mock Lake.</p>

<p>“It’s not a bad dump,” Dinah told me as her little Marmon carried
us toward it. “Polly De Voto is a good scout and anything she sells you is
good, except maybe the Bourbon. That always tastes a little bit like it
had been drained off a corpse. You’ll like her. You can get away with anything
out here so long as you don’t get noisy. She won’t stand for noise.
There it is. See the red and blue lights through the trees?”</p>

<p>We rode out of the woods into full view of the roadhouse, a very
electric-lighted imitation castle set close to the road.</p>

<p>“What do you mean she won’t stand for noise?” I asked, listening to
the chorus of pistols singing <i>Bang-bang-bang</i>.</p>

<p>“Something up,” the girl muttered, stopping the car.</p>

<p>Two men dragging a woman between them ran out of the roadhouse’s
front door, ran away into the darkness. A man sprinted out a side door,
away. The guns sang on. I didn’t see any flashes.</p>

<p>Another man broke out and vanished around the back.</p>

<p>A man leaned far out a front second-story window, a black gun in
his hand.</p>

<p>Dinah blew her breath out sharply.</p>

<p>From a hedge by the road, a flash of orange pointed briefly up at the
man in the window. His gun flashed downward. He leaned farther out.
No second flash came from the hedge.</p>

<p>The man in the window put a leg over the sill, bent, hung by his
hands, dropped.</p>

<p>Our car jerked forward. Dinah’s lower lip was between her teeth.</p>

<p>The man who had dropped from the window was gathering himself
up on hands and knees.</p>

<p>Dinah put her face in front of mine and screamed:</p>

<p>“Reno!”</p>

<p>The man jumped up, his face to us. He made the road in three leaps,
as we got to him.</p>

<p>Dinah had the little Marmon wide open before Reno’s feet were on
the running board beside me. I wrapped my arms around him, and
damned near dislocated them holding him on. He made it as tough as he
could for me by leaning out to try for a shot at the guns that were tossing
lead all around us.</p>

<p>Then it was all over. We were out of range, sight and sound of the
Silver Arrow, speeding away from Personville.</p>

<p>Reno turned around and did his own holding on. I took my arms in
and found that all the joints still worked. Dinah was busy with the car.</p>

<p>Reno said:</p>

<p>“Thanks, kid. I needed pulling out.”</p>

<p>“That’s all right,” she told him. “So that’s the kind of parties you
throw?”</p>

<p>“We had guests that wasn’t invited. You know the Tanner Road?”</p>

<p>“Yes.”</p>

<p>“Take it. It’ll put us over to Mountain Boulevard, and we can get
back to town that-a-way.”</p>

<p>The girl nodded, slowed up a little, and asked:</p>

<p>“Who were the uninvited guests?”</p>

<p>“Some plugs that don’t know enough to leave me alone.”</p>

<p>“Do I know them?” she asked, too casually, as she turned the car
into a narrower and rougher road.</p>

<p>“Let it alone, kid,” Reno said. “Better get as much out of the heap
as it’s got.”</p>

<p>She prodded another fifteen miles an hour out of the Marmon. She
had plenty to do now holding the car to the road, and Reno had plenty
holding himself to the car. Neither of them made any more conversation
until the road brought us into one that had more and better paving.</p>

<p>Then he asked:</p>

<p>“So you paid Whisper off?”</p>

<p>“Um-hmm.”</p>

<p>“They’re saying you turned rat on him.”</p>

<p>“They would. What do you think?”</p>

<p>“Ditching him was all right. But throwing in with a dick and cracking
the works to him is kind of sour. Damned sour, if you ask me.”</p>

<p>He looked at me while he said it. He was a man of thirty-four or&nbsp;-five,
fairly tall, broad and heavy without fat. His eyes were large, brown,
dull, and set far apart in a long, slightly sallow horse face. It was a humorless
face, stolid, but somehow not unpleasant. I looked at him and said
nothing.</p>

<p>The girl said: “If that’s the way you feel about it, you can—”</p>

<p>“Look out,” Reno grunted.</p>

<p>We had swung around a curve. A long black car was straight across
the road ahead of us—a barricade.</p>

<p>Bullets flew around us. Reno and I threw bullets around while the
girl made a polo pony of the little Marmon.</p>

<p>She shoved it over to the left of the road, let the left wheels ride the
bank high, crossed the road again with Reno’s and my weight on the inside,
got the right bank under the left wheels just as our side of the car
began to lift in spite of our weight, slid us down in the road with our
backs to the enemy, and took us out of the neighborhood by the time we
had emptied our guns.</p>

<p>A lot of people had done a lot of shooting, but so far as we could
tell nobody’s bullets had hurt anybody.</p>

<p>Reno, holding to the door with his elbows while he pushed another
clip into his automatic, said:</p>

<p>“Nice work, kid. You handle the bus like you meant it.”</p>

<p>Dinah asked: “Where now?”</p>

<p>“Far away first. Just follow the road. We’ll have to figure it out.
Looks like they got the burg closed up on us. Keep your dog on it.”</p>

<p>We put ten or twelve more miles between Personville and us. We
passed a few cars, saw nothing to show we were being chased. A short
bridge rumbled under us. Reno said:</p>

<p>“Take the right turn at the top of the hill.”</p>

<p>We took it, into a dirt road that wound between trees down the
side of a rock-ridged hill. Ten miles an hour was fast going here. After
five minutes of creeping along Reno ordered a halt. We heard nothing,
saw nothing, during the half-hour we sat in darkness. Then Reno said:</p>

<p>“There’s an empty shack a mile down the way. We’ll camp there,
huh? There’s no sense trying to crash the city line again tonight.”</p>

<p>Dinah said she would prefer anything to being shot at again. I said
it was all right with me, though I would rather have tried to find some
path back to the city.</p>

<p>We followed the dirt track cautiously until our headlights settled
on a small clapboard building that badly needed the paint it had never
got.</p>

<p>“Is this it?” Dinah asked Reno.</p>

<p>“Uh-huh. Stay here till I look it over.”</p>

<p>He left us, appearing soon in the beam of our lights at the shack
door. He fumbled with keys at the padlock, got it off, opened the door,
and went in. Presently he came to the door and called:</p>

<p>“All right. Come in and make yourselves to home.”</p>

<p>Dinah cut off the engine and got out of the car.</p>

<p>“Is there a flashlight in the car?” I asked.</p>

<p>She said, “Yes,” gave it to me, yawned, “My God, I’m tired. I hope
there’s something to drink in the hole.”</p>

<p>I told her I had a flask of Scotch. The news cheered her up.</p>

<p>The shack was a one-room affair that held an army cot covered with
brown blankets, a deal table with a deck of cards and some gummy poker
chips on it, a brown iron stove, four chairs, an oil lamp, dishes, pots, pans
and buckets, three shelves with canned food on them, a pile of firewood
and a wheelbarrow.</p>

<p>Reno was lighting the lamp when we came in. He said:</p>

<p>“Not so tough. I’ll hide the heap and then we’ll be all set till daylight.”</p>

<p>Dinah went over to the cot, turned back the covers, and reported:</p>

<p>“Maybe there’s things in it, but anyway it’s not alive with them. Now
let’s have that drink.”</p>

<p>I unscrewed the flask and passed it to her while Reno went out to
hide the car. When she had finished, I took a shot.</p>

<p>The purr of the Marmon’s engine got fainter. I opened the door and
looked out. Downhill, through trees and bushes, I could see broken chunks
of white light going away. When I lost them for good I returned indoors
and asked the girl:</p>

<p>“Have you ever had to walk home before?”</p>

<p>“What?”</p>

<p>“Reno’s gone with the car.”</p>

<p>“The lousy tramp! Thank God he left us where there’s a bed, anyway.”</p>

<p>“That’ll get you nothing.”</p>

<p>“No?”</p>

<p>“No. Reno had a key to this dump. Ten to one the birds after him
know about it. That’s why he ditched us here. We’re supposed to argue
with them, hold them off his trail a while.”</p>

<p>She got up wearily from the cot, cursed Reno, me, all men from
Adam on, and said disagreeably:</p>

<p>“You know everything. What do we do next?”</p>

<p>“We find a comfortable spot in the great open spaces, not too far
away, and wait to see what happens.”</p>

<p>“I’m going to take the blankets.”</p>

<p>“Maybe one won’t be missed, but you’ll tip our mitts if you take
more than that.”</p>

<p>“Damn your mitts,” she grumbled, but she took only one blanket.</p>

<p>I blew out the lamp, padlocked the door behind us, and with the
help of the flashlight picked a way through the undergrowth.</p>

<p>On the hillside above we found a little hollow from which road and
shack could be not too dimly seen through foliage thick enough to hide
us unless we showed a light.</p>

<p>I spread the blanket there and we settled down.</p>

<p>The girl leaned against me and complained that the ground was
damp, that she was cold in spite of her fur coat, that she had a cramp
in her leg, and that she wanted a cigarette.</p>

<p>I gave her another drink from the flask. That bought me ten minutes
of peace.</p>

<p>Then she said:</p>

<p>“I’m catching cold. By the time anybody comes, if they ever do, I’ll
be sneezing and coughing loud enough to be heard in the city.”</p>

<p>“Just once,” I told her. “Then you’ll be all strangled.”</p>

<p>“There’s a mouse or something crawling under the blanket.”</p>

<p>“Probably only a snake.”</p>

<p>“Are you married?”</p>

<p>“Don’t start that.”</p>

<p>“Then you are?”</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>“I’ll bet your wife’s glad of it.”</p>

<p>I was trying to find a suitable come-back to that wisecrack when a
distant light gleamed up the road. It disappeared as I sh-sh’d the girl.</p>

<p>“What is it?” she asked.</p>

<p>“A light. It’s gone now. Our visitors have left their car and are finishing
the trip afoot.”</p>

<p>A lot of time went by. The girl shivered with her cheek warm against
mine. We heard footsteps, saw dark figures moving on the road and
around the shack, without being sure whether we did or didn’t.</p>

<p>A flashlight ended our doubt by putting a bright circle on the shack’s
door. A heavy voice said:</p>

<p>“We’ll let the broad come out.”</p>

<p>There was a half-minute of silence while they waited for a reply from
indoors. Then the same heavy voice asked: “Coming?” Then more silence.</p>

<p>Gun-fire, a familiar sound tonight, broke the silence. Something hammered
boards.</p>

<p>“Come on,” I whispered to the girl. “We’ll have a try at their car
while they’re making a racket.”</p>

<p>“Let them alone,” she said, pulling my arm down as I started up.
“I’ve had enough of it for one night. We’re all right here.”</p>

<p>“Come on,” I insisted.</p>

<p>She said, “I won’t,” and she wouldn’t, and presently, while we argued,
it was too late. The boys below had kicked in the door, found the
hut empty, and were bellowing for their car.</p>

<p>It came, took eight men aboard, and followed Reno’s track downhill.</p>

<p>“We might as well move in again,” I said. “It’s not likely they’ll be
back this way tonight.”</p>

<p>“I hope to God there’s some Scotch left in that flask,” she said as I
helped her stand up.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVIII</h2><p epub:type="title">Painter Street</p></hgroup>

<p>The shack’s supply of canned goods didn’t include anything
that tempted us for breakfast. We made the meal of coffee cooked in very
stale water from a galvanized pail.</p>

<p>A mile of walking brought us to a farmhouse where there was a boy
who didn’t mind earning a few dollars by driving us to town in the family
Ford. He had a lot of questions, to which we gave him phoney answers
or none. He set us down in front of a little restaurant in upper King
Street, where we ate quantities of buckwheat cakes and bacon.</p>

<p>A taxi put us at Dinah’s door a little before nine o’clock. I searched
the place for her, from roof to cellar, and found no signs of visitors.</p>

<p>“When will you be back?” she asked as she followed me to the door.</p>

<p>“I’ll try to pop in between now and midnight, if only for a few minutes.
Where does Lew Yard live?”</p>

<p>“1622 Painter Street. Painter’s three blocks over. 1622’s four blocks
up. What are you going to do there?” Before I could answer, she put her
hands on my arm and begged: “Get Max, will you? I’m afraid of him.”</p>

<p>“Maybe I’ll sic Noonan on him a little later. It depends on how
things work out.”</p>

<p>She called me a damned double-crossing something or other who
didn’t care what happened to her as long as his dirty work got done.</p>

<p>I went over to Painter Street. 1622 was a red brick house with a
garage under the front porch.</p>

<p>A block up the street I found Dick Foley in a hired drive-yourself
Buick. I got in beside him, asking:</p>

<p>“What’s doing?”</p>

<p>“Spot two. Out three-thirty, office to Willsson’s. Mickey. Five. Home.
Busy. Kept plant. Off three, seven. Nothing yet.”</p>

<p>That was supposed to inform me that he had picked up Lew Yard
at two the previous afternoon; had shadowed him to Willsson’s at three-thirty,
where Mickey had tailed Pete; had followed Yard away at five, to
his residence; had seen people going in and out of the house, but had not
shadowed any of them; had watched the house until three this morning,
and had returned to the job at seven; and since then had seen nobody
go in or out.</p>

<p>“You’ll have to drop this and take a plant on Willsson’s,” I said. “I
hear Whisper Thaler’s holing-up there, and I’d like an eye kept on him
till I make up my mind whether to turn him up for Noonan or not.”</p>

<p>Dick nodded and started the engine grinding. I got out and returned
to the hotel.</p>

<p>There was a telegram from the Old Man:</p>

<blockquote epub:type="z3998:letter">

<p>SEND BY FIRST MAIL FULL EXPLANATION OF PRESENT OPERATION AND
CIRCUMSTANCES UNDER WHICH YOU ACCEPTED IT WITH DAILY REPORTS TO
DATE</p>

</blockquote>

<p>I put the telegram in my pocket and hoped things would keep on
breaking fast. To have sent him the dope he wanted at that time would
have been the same as sending in my resignation.</p>

<p>I bent a fresh collar around my neck and trotted over to the City
Hall.</p>

<p>“Hello,” Noonan greeted me. “I was hoping you’d show up. Tried to
get you at your hotel but they told me you hadn’t been in.”</p>

<p>He wasn’t looking well this morning, but under his glad-handing he
seemed, for a change, genuinely glad to see me.</p>

<p>As I sat down one of his phones rang. He put the receiver to his ear,
said, “Yes?” listened for a moment, said, “You better go out there yourself,
Mac,” and had to make two attempts to get the receiver back on its
prong before he succeeded. His face had gone a little doughy, but his
voice was almost normal as he told me:</p>

<p>“Lew Yard’s been knocked off—shot coming down his front steps just
now.”</p>

<p>“Any details?” I asked while I cursed myself for having pulled Dick
Foley away from Painter Street an hour too soon. That was a tough break.</p>

<p>Noonan shook his head, staring at his lap.</p>

<p>“Shall we go out and look at the remains?” I suggested, getting up.</p>

<p>He neither got up nor looked up.</p>

<p>“No,” he said wearily to his lap. “To tell the truth, I don’t want to.
I don’t know as I could stand it just now. I’m getting sick of this killing.
It’s getting to me—on my nerves, I mean.”</p>

<p>I sat down again, considered his low spirits, and asked:</p>

<p>“Who do you guess killed him?”</p>

<p>“God knows,” he mumbled. “Everybody’s killing everybody. Where’s
it going to end?”</p>

<p>“Think Reno did it?”</p>

<p>Noonan winced, started to look up at me, changed his mind, and
repeated:</p>

<p>“God knows.”</p>

<p>I went at him from another angle:</p>

<p>“Anybody knocked off in the battle at the Silver Arrow last night?”</p>

<p>“Only three.”</p>

<p>“Who were they?”</p>

<p>“A pair of Johnson-brothers named Blackie Whalen and Put Collings
that only got out on bail around five yesterday, and Dutch Jake Wahl, a
guerrilla.”</p>

<p>“What was it all about?”</p>

<p>“Just a roughhouse, I guess. It seems that Put and Blackie and the
others that got out with them were celebrating with a lot of friends, and
it wound up in smoke.”</p>

<p>“All of them Lew Yard’s men?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know anything about that,” he said.</p>

<p>I got up, said, “Oh, all right,” and started for the door.</p>

<p>“Wait,” he called. “Don’t run off like that. I guess they were.”</p>

<p>I came back to my chair. Noonan watched the top of his desk. His
face was gray, flabby, damp, like fresh putty.</p>

<p>“Whisper’s staying at Willsson’s,” I told him.</p>

<p>He jerked his head up. His eyes darkened. Then his mouth twitched,
and he let his head sag again. His eyes faded.</p>

<p>“I can’t go through with it,” he mumbled. “I’m sick of this butchering.
I can’t stand any more of it.”</p>

<p>“Sick enough to give up the idea of evening the score for Tim’s killing,
if it’ll make peace?” I asked.</p>

<p>“I am.”</p>

<p>“That’s what started it,” I reminded him. “If you’re willing to call it
off, it ought to be possible to stop it.”</p>

<p>He raised his face and looked at me with eyes that were like a dog’s
looking at a bone.</p>

<p>“The others ought to be as sick of it as you are,” I went on. “Tell
them how you feel about it. Have a get-together and make peace.”</p>

<p>“They’d think I was up to some kind of a trick,” he objected miserably.</p>

<p>“Have the meeting at Willsson’s. Whisper’s camping there. You’d be
the one risking tricks going there. Are you afraid of that?”</p>

<p>He frowned and asked:</p>

<p>“Will you go with me?”</p>

<p>“If you want me.”</p>

<p>“Thanks,” he said. “I—I’ll try it.”</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIX</h2><p epub:type="title">The Peace Conference</p></hgroup>

<p>All the other delegates to the peace conference were on
hand when Noonan and I arrived at Willsson’s home at the appointed
time, nine o’clock that night. Everybody nodded to us, but the greetings
didn’t go any further than that.</p>

<p>Pete the Finn was the only one I hadn’t met before. The bootlegger
was a big-boned man of fifty with a completely bald head. His forehead
was small, his jaws enormous—wide, heavy, bulging with muscle.</p>

<p>We sat around Willsson’s library table.</p>

<p>Old Elihu sat at the head. The short-clipped hair on his round pink
skull was like silver in the light. His round blue eyes were hard, domineering,
under their bushy white brows. His mouth and chin were horizontal
lines.</p>

<p>On his right Pete the Finn sat watching everybody with tiny black
eyes that never moved. Reno Starkey sat next to the bootlegger. Reno’s
sallow horse face was as stolidly dull as his eyes.</p>

<p>Max Thaler was tilted back in a chair on Willsson’s left. The little
gambler’s carefully pressed pants legs were carelessly crossed. A cigarette
hung from one corner of his tight-lipped mouth.</p>

<p>I sat next to Thaler. Noonan sat on my other side.</p>

<p>Elihu Willsson opened the meeting.</p>

<p>He said things couldn’t go on the way they were going. We were all
sensible men, reasonable men, grown men who had seen enough of the
world to know that a man couldn’t have everything his own way, no matter
who he was. Compromises were things everybody had to make sometimes.
To get what he wanted, a man had to give other people what they
wanted. He said he was sure that what we all most wanted now was to
stop this insane killing. He said he was sure that everything could be
frankly discussed and settled in an hour without turning Personville into
a slaughter-house.</p>

<p>It wasn’t a bad oration.</p>

<p>When it was over there was a moment of silence. Thaler looked past
me, at Noonan, as if he expected something of him. The rest of us followed
his example, looking at the chief of police.</p>

<p>Noonan’s face turned red and he spoke huskily:</p>

<p>“Whisper, I’ll forget you killed Tim.” He stood up and held out a
beefy paw. “Here’s my hand on it.”</p>

<p>Thaler’s thin mouth curved into a vicious smile.</p>

<p>“Your bastard of a brother needed killing, but <i>I</i> didn’t kill him,” he
whispered coldly.</p>

<p>Red became purple in the chief’s face.</p>

<p>I said loudly:</p>

<p>“Wait, Noonan. We’re going at this wrong. We won’t get anywhere
unless everybody comes clean. Otherwise we’ll all be worse off than before.
MacSwain killed Tim, and you know it.”</p>

<p>He started at me with dumbfounded eyes. He gaped. He couldn’t
understand what I had done to him.</p>

<p>I looked at the others, tried to look virtuous as hell, asked:</p>

<p>“That’s settled, isn’t it? Let’s get the rest of the kicks squared.” I
addressed Pete the Finn: “How do you feel about yesterday’s accident to
your warehouse and the four men?”</p>

<p>“One hell of an accident,” he rumbled.</p>

<p>I explained:</p>

<p>“Noonan didn’t know you were using the joint. He went there thinking
it empty, just to clear the way for a job in town. Your men shot first,
and then he really thought he had stumbled into Thaler’s hideout. When
he found he’d been stepping in your puddle he lost his head and touched
the place off.”</p>

<p>Thaler was watching me with a hard small smile in eyes and mouth.
Reno was all dull stolidity. Elihu Willsson was leaning toward me, his
old eyes sharp and wary. I don’t know what Noonan was doing. I couldn’t
afford to look at him. I was in a good spot if I played my hand right, and
in a terrible one if I didn’t.</p>

<p>“The men, they get paid for taking chances,” Pete the Finn said.
“For the other, twenty-five grand will make it right.”</p>

<p>Noonan spoke quickly, eagerly:</p>

<p>“All right, Pete, all right, I’ll give it to you.”</p>

<p>I pushed my lips together to keep from laughing at the panic in his
voice.</p>

<p>I could look at him safely now. He was licked, broken, willing to do
anything to save his fat neck, or to try to. I looked at him.</p>

<p>He wouldn’t look at me. He sat down and looked at nobody. He was
busy trying to look as if he didn’t expect to be carved apart before he got
away from these wolves to whom I had handed him.</p>

<p>I went on with the work, turning to Elihu Willsson:</p>

<p>“Do you want to squawk about your bank being knocked over, or do
you like it?”</p>

<p>Max Thaler touched my arm and suggested:</p>

<p>“We could tell better maybe who’s entitled to beef if you’d give us
what you’ve got first.”</p>

<p>I was glad to.</p>

<p>“Noonan wanted to nail you,” I told him, “but he either got word,
or expected to get word, from Yard and Willsson here to let you alone.
So he thought if he had the bank looted and framed you for it, your
backers would ditch you, and let him go after you right. Yard, I understand,
was supposed to put his O. K. on all the capers in town. You’d be
cutting into his territory, and gyping Willsson. That’s how it would look.
And that was supposed to make them hot enough that they’d help
Noonan cop you. He didn’t know you were here.</p>

<p>“Reno and his mob were in the can. Reno was Yard’s pup, but he
didn’t mind crossing up his headman. He already had the idea that he
was about ready to take the burg away from Lew.” I turned to Reno and
asked: “Isn’t that it?”</p>

<p>He looked at me woodenly and said:</p>

<p>“You’re telling it.”</p>

<p>I continued telling it:</p>

<p>“Noonan fakes a tip that you’re at Cedar Hill, and takes all the coppers
he can’t trust out there with him, even cleaning the traffic detail out
of Broadway, so Reno would have a clear road. McGraw and the bulls
that are in on the play let Reno and his mob sneak out of the hoosegow,
pull the job, and duck back in. Nice thing in alibis. Then they got sprung
on bail a couple of hours later.</p>

<p>“It looks as if Lew Yard tumbled. He sent Dutch Jake Wahl and
some other boys out to the Silver Arrow last night to teach Reno and his
pals not to take things in their own hands like that. But Reno got away,
and got back to the city. It was either him or Lew then. He made sure
which it would be by being in front of Lew’s house with a gun when Lew
came out this morning. Reno seems to have had the right dope, because
I notice that right now he’s holding down a chair that would have been
Lew Yard’s if Lew hadn’t been put on ice.”</p>

<p>Everybody was sitting very still, as if to call attention to how still
they were sitting. Nobody could count on having any friends among those
present. It was no time for careless motions on anybody’s part.</p>

<p>If what I had said meant anything one way or the other to Reno he
didn’t show it.</p>

<p>Thaler whispered softly:</p>

<p>“Didn’t you skip some of it?”</p>

<p>“You mean the part about Jerry?” I kept on being the life of the
party: “I was coming back to that. I don’t know whether he got away from
the can when you crushed out, and was caught later, or whether he didn’t
get away, or why. And I don’t know how willingly he went along on the
bank caper. But he did go along, and he was dropped and left in front of
the bank because he was your right bower, and his being killed there
would pin the trick to you. He was kept in the car till the get-away was
on. Then he was pushed out, and was shot in the back. He was facing the
bank, with his back to the car, when he got his.”</p>

<p>Thaler looked at Reno and whispered:</p>

<p>“Well?”</p>

<p>Reno looked with dull eyes at Thaler and asked calmly:</p>

<p>“What of it?”</p>

<p>Thaler stood up, said, “Deal me out,” and walked to the door.</p>

<p>Pete the Finn stood up, leaning on the table with big bony hands,
speaking from deep in his chest:</p>

<p>“Whisper.” And when Thaler had stopped and turned to face him:
“I’m telling you this. You, Whisper, and all of you. That damn gun-work
is out. All of you understand it. You’ve got no brains to know what is
best for yourselves. So I’ll tell you. This busting the town open is no
good for business. I won’t have it any more. You be nice boys or I’ll make
you.</p>

<p>“I got one army of young fellows that know what to do on any end
of a gun. I got to have them in my racket. If I got to use them on you
I’ll use them on you. You want to play with gunpowder and dynamite?
I’ll show you what playing is. You like to fight? I’ll give you fighting.
Mind what I tell you. That’s all.”</p>

<p>Pete the Finn sat down.</p>

<p>Thaler looked thoughtful for a moment, and went away without saying
or showing what he had thought.</p>

<p>His going made the others impatient. None wanted to remain until
anybody else had time to accumulate a few guns in the neighborhood.</p>

<p>In a very few minutes Elihu Willsson and I had the library to ourselves.</p>

<p>We sat and looked at one another.</p>

<p>Presently he said:</p>

<p>“How would you like to be chief of police?”</p>

<p>“No. I’m a rotten errand boy.”</p>

<p>“I don’t mean with this bunch. After we’ve got rid of them.”</p>

<p>“And got another just like them.”</p>

<p>“Damn you,” he said, “it wouldn’t hurt to take a nicer tone to a man
old enough to be your father.”</p>

<p>“Who curses me and hides behind his age.”</p>

<p>Anger brought a vein out blue in his forehead. Then he laughed.</p>

<p>“You’re a nasty talking lad,” he said, “but I can’t say you haven’t
done what I paid you to do.”</p>

<p>“A swell lot of help I’ve got from you.”</p>

<p>“Did you need wet-nursing? I gave you the money and a free hand.
That’s what you asked for. What more did you want?”</p>

<p>“You old pirate,” I said, “I blackmailed you into it, and you played
against me all the way till now, when even you can see that they’re hell-bent
on gobbling each other up. Now you talk about what you did for
me.”</p>

<p>“Old pirate,” he repeated. “Son, if I hadn’t been a pirate I’d still be
working for the Anaconda for wages, and there’d be no Personville Mining
Corporation. You’re a damned little woolly lamb yourself, I suppose. I
was had, son, where the hair was short. There were things I didn’t like—worse
things that I didn’t know about until tonight—but I was caught and
had to bide my time. Why since that Whisper Thaler has been here I’ve
been a prisoner in my own home, a damned hostage!”</p>

<p>“Tough. Where do you stand now?” I demanded. “Are you behind
me?”</p>

<p>“If you win.”</p>

<p>I got up and said:</p>

<p>“I hope to Christ you get caught with them.”</p>

<p>He said:</p>

<p>“I reckon you do, but I won’t.” He squinted his eyes merrily at me.
“I’m financing you. That shows I mean well, don’t it? Don’t be too hard
on me, son, I’m kind of—”</p>

<p>I said, “Go to hell,” and walked out.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XX</h2><p epub:type="title">Laudanum</p></hgroup>

<p>Dick Foley in his hired car was at the next corner. I had
him drive me over to within a block of Dinah Brand’s house, and walked
the rest of the way.</p>

<p>“You look tired,” she said when I had followed her into the living
room. “Been working?”</p>

<p>“Attending a peace conference out of which at least a dozen killings
ought to grow.”</p>

<p>The telephone rang. She answered it and called me.</p>

<p>Reno Starkey’s voice:</p>

<p>“I thought maybe you’d like to hear about Noonan being shot to hell
and gone when he got out of his heap in front of his house. You never
saw anybody that was deader. Must have had thirty pills pumped in him.”</p>

<p>“Thanks.”</p>

<p>Dinah’s big blue eyes asked questions.</p>

<p>“First fruits of the peace conference, plucked by Whisper Thaler,”
I told her. “Where’s the gin?”</p>

<p>“Reno talking, wasn’t it?”</p>

<p>“Yeah. He thought I’d like to hear about Poisonville being all out
of police chiefs.”</p>

<p>“You mean—?”</p>

<p>“Noonan went down tonight, according to Reno. Haven’t you got any
gin? Or do you like making me ask for it?”</p>

<p>“You know where it is. Been up to some of your cute tricks?”</p>

<p>I went back into the kitchen, opened the top of the refrigerator, and
attacked the ice with an ice pick that had a six-inch awl-sharp blade set
in a round blue and white handle. The girl stood in the doorway and asked
questions. I didn’t answer them while I put ice, gin, lemon juice and seltzer
together in two glasses.</p>

<p>“What have you been doing?” she demanded as we carried our drinks
into the dining room. “You look ghastly.”</p>

<p>I put my glass on the table, sat down facing it, and complained:</p>

<p>“This damned burg’s getting me. If I don’t get away soon I’ll be going
blood-simple like the natives. There’s been what? A dozen and a half
murders since I’ve been here. Donald Willsson; Ike Bush; the four wops
and the dick at Cedar Hill; Jerry; Lew Yard; Dutch Jake, Blackie Whalen
and Put Collings at the Silver Arrow; Big Nick, the copper I potted; the
blond kid Whisper dropped here; Yakima Shorty, old Elihu’s prowler;
and now Noonan. That’s sixteen of them in less than a week, and more
coming up.”</p>

<p>She frowned at me and said sharply:</p>

<p>“Don’t look like that.”</p>

<p>I laughed and went on:</p>

<p>“I’ve arranged a killing or two in my time, when they were necessary.
But this is the first time I’ve ever got the fever. It’s this damned burg.
You can’t go straight here. I got myself tangled at the beginning. When
old Elihu ran out on me there was nothing I could do but try to set the
boys against each other. I had to swing the job the best way I could. How
could I help it if the best way was bound to lead to a lot of killing? The
job couldn’t be handled any other way without Elihu’s backing.”</p>

<p>“Well, if you couldn’t help it, what’s the use of making a lot of fuss
over it? Drink your drink.”</p>

<p>I drank half of it and felt the urge to talk some more.</p>

<p>“Play with murder enough and it gets you one of two ways. It makes
you sick, or you get to like it. It got Noonan the first way. He was green
around the gills after Yard was knocked off, all the stomach gone out of
him, willing to do anything to make peace. I took him in, suggested that
he and the other survivors get together and patch up their differences.</p>

<p>“We had the meeting at Willsson’s tonight. It was a nice party. Pretending
I was trying to clear away everybody’s misunderstandings by coming
clean all around, I stripped Noonan naked and threw him to them—him
and Reno. That broke up the meeting. Whisper declared himself out.
Pete told everybody where they stood. He said battling was bad for his
bootlegging racket, and anybody who started anything from then on could
expect to have his booze guards turned loose on them. Whisper didn’t
look impressed. Neither did Reno.”</p>

<p>“They wouldn’t be,” the girl said. “What did you do to Noonan? I
mean how did you strip him and Reno?”</p>

<p>“I told the others that he had known all along that MacSwain killed
Tim. That was the only lie I told them. Then I told them about the bank
stick-up being turned by Reno and the chief, with Jerry taken along and
dropped on the premises to tie the job to Whisper. I knew that’s the way
it was if what you told me was right, about Jerry getting out of the car,
starting toward the bank and being shot. The hole was in his back. Fitting
in with that, McGraw said the last seen of the stick-up car was when it
turned into King Street. The boys would be returning to the City Hall,
to their jail alibi.”</p>

<p>“But didn’t the bank watchman say he shot Jerry? That’s the way
it was in the papers.”</p>

<p>“He said so, but he’d say anything and believe it. He probably emptied
his gun with his eyes shut, and anything that fell was his. Didn’t you
see Jerry drop?”</p>

<p>“Yes, I did, and he was facing the bank, but it was all too confused
for me to see who shot him. There were a lot of men shooting, and—”</p>

<p>“Yeah. They’d see to that. I also advertised the fact—at least, it looks
like a fact to me—that Reno plugged Lew Yard. This Reno is a tough egg,
isn’t he? Noonan went watery, but all they got out of Reno was a ‘What
of it?’ It was all nice and gentlemanly. They were evenly divided—Pete
and Whisper against Noonan and Reno. But none of them could count
on his partner backing him up if he made a play, and by the time the
meeting was over the pairs had been split. Noonan was out of the count,
and Reno and Whisper, against each other, had Pete against them. So
everybody sat around and behaved and watched everybody else while I
juggled death and destruction.</p>

<p>“Whisper was the first to leave, and he seems to have had time to
collect some rods in front of Noonan’s house by the time the chief reached
home. The chief was shot down. If Pete the Finn meant what he said—and
he has the look of a man who would—he’ll be out after Whisper. Reno
was as much to blame for Jerry’s death as Noonan, so Whisper ought to
be gunning for him. Knowing it, Reno will be out to get Whisper first,
and that will set Pete on his trail. Besides that, Reno will likely have his
hands full standing off those of the late Lew Yard’s underlings who don’t
fancy Reno as boss. All in all it’s one swell dish.”</p>

<p>Dinah Brand reached across the table and patted my hand. Her eyes
were uneasy. She said:</p>

<p>“It’s not your fault, darling. You said yourself that there was nothing
else you could do. Finish your drink and we’ll have another.”</p>

<p>“There was plenty else I could do,” I contradicted her. “Old Elihu
ran out on me at first simply because these birds had too much on him
for him to risk a break unless he was sure they could be wiped out. He
couldn’t see how I could do it, so he played with them. He’s not exactly
their brand of cut-throat, and, besides, he thinks the city is his personal
property, and he doesn’t like the way they’ve taken it away from him.</p>

<p>“I could have gone to him this afternoon and showed him that I had
them ruined. He’d have listened to reason. He’d have come over to my
side, have given me the support I needed to swing the play legally. I could
have done that. But it’s easier to have them killed off, easier and surer,
and, now that I’m feeling this way, more satisfying. I don’t know how
I’m going to come out with the Agency. The Old Man will boil me in oil
if he ever finds out what I’ve been doing. It’s this damned town. Poisonville
is right. It’s poisoned me.</p>

<p>“Look. I sat at Willsson’s table tonight and played them like you’d
play trout, and got just as much fun out of it. I looked at Noonan and
knew he hadn’t a chance in a thousand of living another day because of
what I had done to him, and I laughed, and felt warm and happy inside.
That’s not me. I’ve got hard skin all over what’s left of my soul, and after
twenty years of messing around with crime I can look at any sort of a murder
without seeing anything in it but my bread and butter, the day’s work.
But this getting a rear out of planning deaths is not natural to me. It’s
what this place has done to me.”</p>

<p>She smiled too softly and spoke too indulgently:</p>

<p>“You exaggerate so, honey. They deserve all they get. I wish you
wouldn’t look like that. You make me feel creepy.”</p>

<p>I grinned, picked up the glasses, and went out to the kitchen for
more gin. When I came back she frowned at me over anxious dark eyes
and asked:</p>

<p>“Now what did you bring the ice pick in for?”</p>

<p>“To show you how my mind’s running. A couple of days ago, if I
thought about it at all, it was as a good tool to pry off chunks of ice.” I
ran a finger down its half-foot of round steel blade to the needle point.
“Not a bad thing to pin a man to his clothes with. That’s the way I’m
betting, on the level. I can’t even see a mechanical cigar lighter without
thinking of filling one with nitroglycerine for somebody you don’t like.
There’s a piece of copper wire lying in the gutter in front of your house—thin,
soft, and just long enough to go around a neck with two ends to
hold on. I had one hell of a time to keep from picking it up and stuffing
it in my pocket, just in case—”</p>

<p>“You’re crazy.”</p>

<p>“I know it. That’s what I’ve been telling you. I’m going blood-simple.”</p>

<p>“Well, I don’t like it. Put that thing back in the kitchen and sit down
and be sensible.”</p>

<p>I obeyed two-thirds of the order.</p>

<p>“The trouble with you is,” she scolded me, “your nerves are shot.
You’ve been through too much excitement in the last few days. Keep it
up and you’re going to have the heebie-jeebies for fair, a nervous breakdown.”</p>

<p>I held up a hand with spread fingers. It was steady enough.</p>

<p>She looked at it and said:</p>

<p>“That doesn’t mean anything. It’s inside you. Why don’t you sneak
off for a couple of days’ rest? You’ve got things here so they’ll run themselves.
Let’s go down to Salt Lake. It’ll do you good.”</p>

<p>“Can’t, sister. Somebody’s got to stay here to count the dead. Besides,
the whole program is based on the present combination of people
and events. Our going out of town would change that, and the chances
are the whole thing would have to be gone over again.”</p>

<p>“Nobody would have to know you were gone, and I’ve got nothing
to do with it.”</p>

<p>“Since when?”</p>

<p>She leaned forward, made her eyes small, and asked:</p>

<p>“Now what are you getting at?”</p>

<p>“Nothing. Just wondering how you got to be a disinterested bystander
all of a sudden. Forgotten that Donald Willsson was killed because
of you, starting the whole thing? Forgotten that it was the dope
you gave me on Whisper that kept the job from petering out in the middle?”</p>

<p>“You know just as well as I do that none of that was my fault,” she
said indignantly. “And it’s all past, anyway. You’re just bringing it up because
you’re in a rotten humor and want to argue.”</p>

<p>“It wasn’t past last night, when you were scared stiff Whisper was
going to kill you.”</p>

<p>“Will you stop talking about killing!”</p>

<p>“Young Albury once told me Bill Quint had threatened to kill you,”
I said.</p>

<p>“Stop it.”</p>

<p>“You seem to have a gift for stirring up murderous notions in your
boy friends. There’s Albury waiting trial for killing Willsson. There’s
Whisper who’s got you shivering in corners. Even I haven’t escaped your
influence. Look at the way I’ve turned. And I’ve always had a private notion
that Dan Rolff’s going to have a try at you some day.”</p>

<p>“Dan! You’re crazy. Why, I—”</p>

<p>“Yeah. He was a lunger and down and out, and you took him in. You
gave him a home and all the laudanum he wants. You use him for errand
boy, you slap his face in front of me, and slap him around in front of
others. He’s in love with you. One of these mornings you’re going to wake
up and find he’s whittled your neck away.”</p>

<p>She shivered, got up and laughed.</p>

<p>“I’m glad one of us knows what you’re talking about, if you do,” she
said as she carried our empty glasses through the kitchen door.</p>

<p>I lit a cigarette and wondered why I felt the way I did, wondered if
I were getting psychic, wondered whether there was anything in this presentiment
business or whether my nerves were just ragged.</p>

<p>“The next best thing for you to do if you won’t go away,” the girl
advised me when she returned with full glasses, “is to get plastered and
forget everything for a few hours. I put a double slug of gin in yours.
You need it.”</p>

<p>“It’s not me,” I said, wondering why I was saying it, but somehow
enjoying it. “It’s you. Every time I mention killing, you jump on me.
You’re a woman. You think if nothing’s said about it, maybe none of the
God only knows how many people in town who might want to will kill
you. That’s silly. Nothing we say or don’t say is going to make Whisper,
for instance—”</p>

<p>“Please, please stop! I am silly. I am afraid of the words. I’m afraid
of him. I—Oh, why didn’t you put him out of the way when I asked you?”</p>

<p>“Sorry,” I said, meaning it.</p>

<p>“Do you think he—?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know,” I told her, “and I reckon you’re right. There’s no use
talking about it. The thing to do is drink, though there doesn’t seem to
be much body to this gin.”</p>

<p>“That’s you, not the gin. Do you want an honest to God rear?”</p>

<p>“I’d drink nitroglycerine tonight.”</p>

<p>“That’s just about what you’re going to get,” she promised me.</p>

<p>She rattled bottles in the kitchen and brought me in a glass of what
looked like the stuff we had been drinking. I sniffed at it and said:</p>

<p>“Some of Dan’s laudanum, huh? He still in the hospital?”</p>

<p>“Yes. I think his skull is fractured. There’s your kick, mister, if that’s
what you want.”</p>

<p>I put the doped gin down my throat. Presently I felt more comfortable.
Time went by as we drank and talked in a world that was rosy, cheerful,
and full of fellowship and peace on earth.</p>

<p>Dinah stuck to gin. I tried that for a while too, and then had another
gin and laudanum.</p>

<p>For a while after that I played a game, trying to hold my eyes open
as if I were awake, even though I couldn’t see anything out of them.
When the trick wouldn’t fool her any more I gave it up.</p>

<p>The last thing I remembered was her helping me on to the living
room Chesterfield.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXI</h2><p epub:type="title">The Seventeenth Murder</p></hgroup>

<p>I dreamed I was sitting on a bench, in Baltimore, facing the
tumbling fountain in Harlem Park, beside a woman who wore a veil. I
had come there with her. She was somebody I knew well. But I had suddenly
forgotten who she was. I couldn’t see her face because of the long
black veil.</p>

<p>I thought that if I said something to her I would recognize her voice
when she answered. But I was very embarrassed and was a long time finding
anything to say. Finally I asked her if she knew a man named Carroll
T. Harris.</p>

<p>She answered me, but the roar and swish of the tumbling fountain
smothered her voice, and I could hear nothing.</p>

<p>Fire engines went out Edmondson Avenue. She left me to run after
them. As she ran she cried, “Fire! Fire!” I recognized her voice then and
knew who she was, and knew she was someone important to me. I ran
after her, but it was too late. She and the fire engines were gone.</p>

<p>I walked streets hunting for her, half the streets in the United States,
Gay Street and Mount Royal Avenue in Baltimore, Colfax Avenue in
Denver, Aetna Road and St. Clair Avenue in Cleveland, McKinney Avenue
in Dallas, Lemartine and Cornell and Amory Streets in Boston,
Berry Boulevard in Louisville, Lexington Avenue in New York, until I
came to Victoria Street in Jacksonville, where I heard her voice again,
though I still could not see her.</p>

<p>I walked more streets, listening to her voice. She was calling a name,
not mine, one strange to me, but no matter how fast I walked or in what
direction, I could get no nearer her voice. It was the same distance from
me in the street that runs past the Federal Building in El Paso as in
Detroit’s Grand Circus Park. Then the voice stopped.</p>

<p>Tired and discouraged, I went into the lobby of the hotel that faces
the railroad station in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, to rest. While I
sat there a train came in. She got off it and came into the lobby, over to
me, and began kissing me. I was very uncomfortable because everybody
stood around looking at us and laughing.</p>

<p>That dream ended there.</p>

<p>I dreamed I was in a strange city hunting for a man I hated. I had an
open knife in my pocket and meant to kill him with it when I found
him. It was Sunday morning. Church bells were ringing, crowds of people
were in the streets, going to and from church. I walked almost as far as in
the first dream, but always in this same strange city.</p>

<p>Then the man I was after yelled at me, and I saw him. He was a
small brown man who wore an immense sombrero. He was standing on
the steps of a tall building on the far side of a wide plaza, laughing at
me. Between us, the plaza was crowded with people, packed shoulder to
shoulder.</p>

<p>Keeping one hand on the open knife in my pocket, I ran toward the
little brown man, running on the heads and shoulders of the people in the
plaza. The heads and shoulders were of unequal heights and not evenly
spaced. I slipped and floundered over them.</p>

<p>The little brown man stood on the steps and laughed until I had
almost reached him. Then he ran into the tall building. I chased him up
miles of spiral stairway, always just an inch more than a hand’s reach
behind him. We came to the roof. He ran straight across to the edge and
jumped just as one of my hands touched him.</p>

<p>His shoulder slid out of my fingers. My hand knocked his sombrero
off, and closed on his head. It was a smooth hard round head no larger
than a large egg. My fingers went all the way around it. Squeezing his
head in one hand, I tried to bring the knife out of my pocket with the
other—and realized that I had gone off the edge of the roof with him. We
dropped giddily down toward the millions of upturned faces in the plaza,
miles down.</p>

<hr/>

<p>I opened my eyes in the dull light of morning sun filtered through drawn
blinds.</p>

<p>I was lying face down on the dining room floor, my head resting on
my left forearm. My right arm was stretched straight out. My right hand
held the round blue and white handle of Dinah Brand’s ice pick. The
pick’s six-inch needle-sharp blade was buried in Dinah Brand’s left breast.</p>

<p>She was lying on her back, dead. Her long muscular legs were
stretched out toward the kitchen door. There was a run down the front of
her right stocking.</p>

<p>Slowly, gently, as if afraid of awakening her, I let go the ice pick,
drew in my arm, and got up.</p>

<p>My eyes burned. My throat and mouth were hot, woolly. I went into
the kitchen, found a bottle of gin, tilted it to my mouth, and kept it there
until I had to breathe. The kitchen clock said seven-forty-one.</p>

<p>With the gin in me I returned to the dining room, switched on the
lights, and looked at the dead girl.</p>

<p>Not much blood was in sight: a spot the size of a silver dollar around
the hole the ice pick made in her blue silk dress. There was a bruise on
her right cheek, just under the cheek bone. Another bruise, finger-made,
was on her right wrist. Her hands were empty. I moved her enough to see
that nothing was under her.</p>

<p>I examined the room. So far as I could tell, nothing had been changed
in it. I went back to the kitchen and found no recognizable changes there.</p>

<p>The spring lock on the back door was fastened, and had no marks to
show it had been monkeyed with. I went to the front door and failed to
find any marks on it. I went through the house from top to bottom, and
learned nothing. The windows were all right. The girl’s jewelry, on her
dressing table (except the two diamond rings on her hands), and four
hundred odd dollars in her handbag, on a bedroom chair, were undisturbed.</p>

<p>In the dining room again, I knelt beside the dead girl and used my
handkerchief to wipe the ice pick handle clean of any prints my fingers
had left on it. I did the same to glasses, bottles, doors, light buttons, and
the pieces of furniture I had touched, or was likely to have touched.</p>

<p>Then I washed my hands, examined my clothes for blood, made
sure I was leaving none of my property behind, and went to the front
door. I opened it, wiped the inner knob, closed it behind me, wiped the
outer knob, and went away.</p>

<hr/>

<p>From a drug store in upper Broadway I telephoned Dick Foley and asked
him to come over to my hotel. He arrived a few minutes after I got there.</p>

<p>“Dinah Brand was killed in her house last night or early this morning,”
I told him. “Stabbed with an ice pick. The police don’t know it yet.
I’ve told you enough about her for you to know that there are any number
of people who might have had reason for killing her. There are three I
want looked up first—Whisper, Dan Rolff and Bill Quint, the radical
fellow. You’ve got their descriptions. Rolff is in the hospital with a dented
skull. I don’t know which hospital. Try the City first. Get hold of Mickey
Linehan—he’s still camped on Pete the Finn’s trail—and have him let
Pete rest while he gives you a hand on this. Find out where those three
birds were last night. And time means something.”</p>

<p>The little Canadian op had been watching me curiously while I
talked. Now he started to say something, changed his mind, grunted,
“Righto,” and departed.</p>

<hr/>

<p>I went out to look for Reno Starkey. After an hour of searching I located
him, by telephone, in a Ronney Street rooming house.</p>

<p>“By yourself?” he asked when I had said I wanted to see him.</p>

<p>“Yeah.”</p>

<p>He said I could come out, and told me how to get there. I took a
taxi. It was a dingy two-story house near the edge of town.</p>

<p>A couple of men loitered in front of a grocer’s on the corner above.
Another pair sat on the low wooden steps of the house down at the next
corner. None of the four was conspicuously refined in appearance.</p>

<p>When I rang the bell two men opened the door. They weren’t so
mild looking either.</p>

<p>I was taken upstairs to a front room where Reno, collarless and in
shirt-sleeves and vest, sat tilted back in a chair with his feet on the window
sill.</p>

<p>He nodded his sallow horse face and said:</p>

<p>“Pull a chair over.”</p>

<p>The men who had brought me up went away, closing the door. I sat
down and said:</p>

<p>“I want an alibi. Dinah Brand was killed last night after I left her.
There’s no chance of my being copped for it, but with Noonan dead I
don’t know how I’m hitched up with the department. I don’t want to give
them any openings to even try to hang anything on me. If I’ve got to I
can prove where I was last night, but you can save me a lot of trouble if
you will.”</p>

<p>Reno looked at me with dull eyes and asked:</p>

<p>“Why pick on me?”</p>

<p>“You phoned me there last night. You’re the only person who knows
I was there the first part of the night. I’d have to fix it with you even if
I got the alibi somewhere else, wouldn’t I?”</p>

<p>He asked:</p>

<p>“You didn’t croak her, did you?”</p>

<p>I said, “No,” casually.</p>

<p>He stared out the window a little while before he spoke. He asked:</p>

<p>“What made you think I’d give you the lift? Do I owe you anything
for what you done to me at Willsson’s last night?”</p>

<p>I said:</p>

<p>“I didn’t hurt you any. The news was half-out anyhow. Whisper knew
enough to guess the rest. I only gave you a show-down. What do you care?
You can take care of yourself.”</p>

<p>“I aim to try,” he agreed. “All right. You was at the Tanner House
in Tanner. That’s a little burg twenty-thirty miles up the hill. You went
up there after you left Willsson’s and stayed till morning. A guy named
Ricker that hangs around Murry’s with a hire heap drove you up and back.
You ought to know what you was doing up there. Give me your sig and
I’ll have it put on the register.”</p>

<p>“Thanks,” I said as I unscrewed my fountain pen.</p>

<p>“Don’t say them. I’m doing this because I need all the friends I can
get. When the time comes that you sit in with me and Whisper and
Pete, I don’t expect the sour end of it.”</p>

<p>“You won’t get it,” I promised. “Who’s going to be chief of police?”</p>

<p>“McGraw’s acting chief. He’ll likely cinch it.”</p>

<p>“How’ll he play?”</p>

<p>“With the Finn. Rough stuff will hurt his shop just like it does
Pete’s. It’ll have to be hurt some. I’d be a swell mutt to sit still while a
guy like Whisper is on the loose. It’s me or him. Think he croaked the
broad?”</p>

<p>“He had reason enough,” I said as I gave him the slip of paper on
which I had written my name. “She double-crossed him, sold him out,
plenty.”</p>

<p>“You and her was kind of thick, wasn’t you?” he asked.</p>

<p>I let the question alone, lighting a cigarette. Reno waited a while
and then said:</p>

<p>“You better hunt up Ricker and let him get a look at you so’s he’ll
know how to describe you if he’s asked.”</p>

<p>A long-legged youngster of twenty-two or so with a thin freckled face
around reckless eyes opened the door and came into the room. Reno
introduced him to me as Hank O’Marra. I stood up to shake his hand,
and then asked Reno:</p>

<p>“Can I reach you here if I need to?”</p>

<p>“Know Peak Murry?”</p>

<p>“I’ve met him, and I know his joint.”</p>

<p>“Anything you give him will get to me,” he said. “We’re getting out
of here. It’s not so good. That Tanner lay is all set.”</p>

<p>“Right. Thanks.” I went out of the house.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXII</h2><p epub:type="title">The Ice Pick</p></hgroup>

<p>Downtown, I went first to police headquarters. McGraw
was holding down the chief’s desk. His blond-lashed eyes looked suspiciously
at me, and the lines in his leathery face were even deeper and
sourer than usual.</p>

<p>“When’d you see Dinah Brand last?” he asked without any preliminaries,
not even a nod. His voice rasped disagreeably through his bony
nose.</p>

<p>“Ten-forty last night, or thereabout,” I said. “Why?”</p>

<p>“Where?”</p>

<p>“Her house.”</p>

<p>“How long were you there?”</p>

<p>“Why?”</p>

<p>“Ten minutes, maybe fifteen.”</p>

<p>“Why?”</p>

<p>“Why what?”</p>

<p>“Why didn’t you stay any longer than that?”</p>

<p>“What,” I asked, sitting down in the chair he hadn’t offered me,
“makes it any of your business?”</p>

<p>He glared at me while he filled his lungs so he could yell, “Murder!”
in my face.</p>

<p>I laughed and said:</p>

<p>“You don’t think she had anything to do with Noonan’s killing?”</p>

<p>I wanted a cigarette, but cigarettes were too well known as first aids
to the nervous for me to take a chance on one just then.</p>

<p>McGraw was trying to look through my eyes. I let him look, having
all sorts of confidence in my belief that, like a lot of people, I looked most
honest when I was lying. Presently he gave up the eye-study and asked:</p>

<p>“Why not?”</p>

<p>That was weak enough. I said, “All right, why not?” indifferently,
offered him a cigarette, and took one myself. Then I added: “My guess is
that Whisper did it.”</p>

<p>“Was he there?” For once McGraw cheated his nose, snapping the
words off his teeth.</p>

<p>“Was he where?”</p>

<p>“At Brand’s?”</p>

<p>“No,” I said, wrinkling my forehead. “Why should he be—if he was
off killing Noonan?”</p>

<p>“Damn Noonan!” the acting chief exclaimed irritably. “What do
you keep dragging him in for?”</p>

<p>I tried to look at him as if I thought him crazy.</p>

<p>He said:</p>

<p>“Dinah Brand was murdered last night.”</p>

<p>I said: “Yeah?”</p>

<p>“Now will you answer my questions?”</p>

<p>“Of course. I was at Willsson’s with Noonan and the others. After I
left there, around ten-thirty, I dropped in at her house to tell her I had to
go up to Tanner. I had a half-way date with her. I stayed there about ten
minutes, long enough to have a drink. There was nobody else there, unless
they were hiding. When was she killed? And how?”</p>

<p>McGraw told me he had sent a pair of his dicks—Shepp and Vanaman—to
see the girl that morning, to see how much help she could and
would give the department in copping Whisper for Noonan’s murder. The
dicks got to her house at nine-thirty. The front door was ajar. Nobody
answered their ringing. They went in and found the girl lying on her
back in the dining room, dead, with a stab wound in her left breast.</p>

<p>The doctor who examined the body said she had been killed with a
slender, round, pointed blade about six inches in length, at about three
o’clock in the morning. Bureaus, closets, trunks, and so on, had apparently
been skilfully and thoroughly ransacked. There was no money in the girl’s
handbag, or elsewhere in the house. The jewel case on her dressing table
was empty. Two diamond rings were on her fingers.</p>

<p>The police hadn’t found the weapon with which she had been
stabbed. The fingerprint experts hadn’t turned up anything they could
use. Neither doors nor windows seemed to have been forced. The kitchen
showed that the girl had been drinking with a guest or guests.</p>

<p>“Six inches, round, slim, pointed,” I repeated the weapon’s description.
“That sounds like her ice pick.”</p>

<p>McGraw reached for the phone and told somebody to send Shepp
and Vanaman in. Shepp was a stoop-shouldered tall man whose wide
mouth had a grimly honest look that probably came from bad teeth. The
other detective was short, stocky, with purplish veins in his nose and
hardly any neck.</p>

<p>McGraw introduced us and asked them about the ice pick. They
had not seen it, were positive it hadn’t been there. They wouldn’t have
overlooked an article of its sort.</p>

<p>“Was it there last night?” McGraw asked me.</p>

<p>“I stood beside her while she chipped off pieces of ice with it.”</p>

<p>I described it. McGraw told the dicks to search her house again, and
then to try to find the pick in the vicinity of the house.</p>

<p>“You knew her,” he said when Shepp and Vanaman had gone.
“What’s your slant on it?”</p>

<p>“Too new for me to have one,” I dodged the question. “Give me an
hour or two to think it over. What do you think?”</p>

<p>He fell back into sourness, growling, “How the hell do I know?”</p>

<p>But the fact that he let me go away without asking me any more
questions told me he had already made up his mind that Whisper had
killed the girl.</p>

<p>I wondered if the little gambler had done it, or if this was another
of the wrong raps that Poisonville police chiefs liked to hang on him. It
didn’t seem to make much difference now. It was a cinch he had—personally
or by deputy—put Noonan out, and they could only hang him once.</p>

<hr/>

<p>There were a lot of men in the corridor when I left McGraw. Some of
these men were quite young—just kids—quite a few were foreigners, and
most of them were every bit as tough looking as any men should be.</p>

<p>Near the street door I met Donner, one of the coppers who had been
on the Cedar Hill expedition.</p>

<p>“Hello,” I greeted him. “What’s the mob? Emptying the can to make
room for more?”</p>

<p>“Them’s our new specials,” he told me, speaking as if he didn’t think
much of them. “We’re going to have a augmented force.”</p>

<p>“Congratulations,” I said and went on out.</p>

<p>In his pool room I found Peak Murry sitting at a desk behind the
cigar counter talking to three men. I sat down on the other side of the
room and watched two kids knock balls around. In a few minutes
the lanky proprietor came over to me.</p>

<p>“If you see Reno some time,” I told him, “you might let him know
that Pete the Finn’s having his mob sworn in as special coppers.”</p>

<p>“I might,” Murry agreed.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Mickey Linehan was sitting in the lobby when I got back to my hotel. He
followed me up to my room, and reported:</p>

<p>“Your Dan Rolff pulled a sneak from the hospital somewhere after
midnight last night. The croakers are kind of steamed up about it.
Seems they were figuring on pulling a lot of little pieces of bone out of
his brain this morning. But him and his duds were gone. We haven’t got
a line on Whisper yet. Dick’s out now trying to place Bill Quint. What’s
what on this girl’s carving? Dick tells me you got it before the coppers.”</p>

<p>“It—”</p>

<p>The telephone bell rang.</p>

<p>A man’s voice, carefully oratorical, spoke my name with a question
mark after it.</p>

<p>I said: “Yeah.”</p>

<p>The voice said:</p>

<p>“This is Mr. Charles Proctor Dawn speaking. I think you will find it
well worth your while to appear at my offices at your earliest convenience.”</p>

<p>“Will I? Who are you?”</p>

<p>“Mr. Charles Proctor Dawn, attorney-at-law. My suite is in the Rutledge
Block, 310 Green Street. I think you will find it well—”</p>

<p>“Mind telling me part of what it’s about?” I asked.</p>

<p>“There are affairs best not discussed over the telephone. I think you
will find—”</p>

<p>“All right,” I interrupted him again. “I’ll be around to see you this
afternoon if I get a chance.”</p>

<p>“You will find it very, very advisable,” he assured me.</p>

<p>I hung up on that.</p>

<p>Mickey said:</p>

<p>“You were going to give me the what’s what on the Brand slaughter.”</p>

<p>I said:</p>

<p>“I wasn’t. I started to say it oughtn’t to be hard to trace Rolff—running
around with a fractured skull and probably a lot of bandages.
Suppose you try it. Give Hurricane Street a play first.”</p>

<p>Mickey grinned all the way across his comedian’s red face, said,
“Don’t tell me anything that’s going on—I’m only working with you,”
picked up his hat, and left me.</p>

<p>I spread myself on the bed, smoked cigarettes end to end, and
thought about last night—my frame of mind, my passing out, my dreams,
and the situation into which I woke. The thinking was unpleasant enough
to make me glad when it was interrupted.</p>

<p>Fingernails scratched the outside of my door. I opened the door.</p>

<p>The man who stood there was a stranger to me. He was young, thin,
and gaudily dressed. He had heavy eyebrows and a small mustache that
were coal-black against a very pale, nervous, but not timid, face.</p>

<p>“I’m Ted Wright,” he said, holding out a hand as if I were glad to
meet him. “I guess you’ve heard Whisper talk about me.”</p>

<p>I gave him my hand, let him in, closed the door, and asked:</p>

<p>“You’re a friend of Whisper’s?”</p>

<p>“You bet.” He held up two thin fingers pressed tightly together.
“Just like that, me and him.”</p>

<p>I didn’t say anything. He looked around the room, smiled nervously,
crossed to the open bathroom door, peeped in, came back to me, rubbed
his lips with his tongue, and made his proposition:</p>

<p>“I’ll knock him off for you for half a grand.”</p>

<p>“Whisper?”</p>

<p>“Yep, and it’s dirt cheap.”</p>

<p>“Why do I want him killed?” I asked.</p>

<p>“He un-womaned you, didn’t he?”</p>

<p>“Yeah?”</p>

<p>“You ain’t that dumb.”</p>

<p>A notion stirred in my noodle. To give it time to crawl around I
said: “Sit down. This needs talking over.”</p>

<p>“It don’t need nothing,” he said, looking at me sharply, not moving
toward either chair. “You either want him knocked off or you don’t.”</p>

<p>“Then I don’t.”</p>

<p>He said something I didn’t catch, down in his throat, and turned to
the door. I got between him and it. He stopped, his eyes fidgeting.</p>

<p>I said:</p>

<p>“So Whisper’s dead?”</p>

<p>He stepped back and put a hand behind him. I poked his jaw, leaning
my hundred and ninety pounds on the poke.</p>

<p>He got his legs crossed and went down.</p>

<p>I pulled him up by the wrists, yanked his face close to mine, and
growled:</p>

<p>“Come through. What’s the racket?”</p>

<p>“I ain’t done nothing to you.”</p>

<p>“Let me catch you. Who got Whisper?”</p>

<p>“I don’t know nothing a—”</p>

<p>I let go of one of his wrists, slapped his face with my open hand,
caught his wrist again, and tried my luck at crunching both of them while
I repeated:</p>

<p>“Who got Whisper?”</p>

<p>“Dan Rolff,” he whined. “He walked up to him and stuck him with
the same skewer Whisper had used on the twist. That’s right.”</p>

<p>“How do you know it was the one Whisper killed the girl with?”</p>

<p>“Dan said so.”</p>

<p>“What did Whisper say?”</p>

<p>“Nothing. He looked funny as hell, standing there with the butt of
the sticker sticking out his side. Then he flashes the rod and puts two pills
in Dan just like one, and the both of them go down together, cracking
heads, Dan’s all bloody through the bandages.”</p>

<p>“And then what?”</p>

<p>“Then nothing. I roll them over, and they’re a pair of stiffs. Every
word I’m telling you is gospel.”</p>

<p>“Who else was there?”</p>

<p>“Nobody else. Whisper was hiding out, with only me to go between
him and the mob. He killed Noonan hisself, and he didn’t want to have
to trust nobody for a couple of days, till he could see what was what, excepting
me.”</p>

<p>“So you, being a smart boy, thought you could run around to his
enemies and pick up a little dough for killing him after he was dead?”</p>

<p>“I was clean, and this won’t be no place for Whisper’s pals when the
word gets out that he’s croaked,” Wright whined. “I had to raise a get-away
stake.”</p>

<p>“How’d you make out so far?”</p>

<p>“I got a century from Pete and a century and a half from Peak
Murry—for Reno—with more promised from both when I turn the trick.”
The whine changed into boasting as he talked. “I bet you I could get
McGraw to come across too, and I thought you’d kick in with something.”</p>

<p>“They must be high in the air to toss dough at a woozy racket like
that.”</p>

<p>“I don’t know,” he said superiorly. “It ain’t such a lousy one at
that.” He became humble again. “Give me a chance, chief. Don’t gum it
on me. I’ll give you fifty bucks now and a split of whatever I get from
McGraw if you’ll keep your clam shut till I can put it over and grab a
rattler.”</p>

<p>“Nobody but you knows where Whisper is?”</p>

<p>“Nobody else, except Dan, that’s as dead as he is.”</p>

<p>“Where are they?”</p>

<p>“The old Redman warehouse down on Porter Street. In the back,
upstairs, Whisper had a room fixed up with a bed, stove, and some grub.
Give me a chance. Fifty bucks now and a cut on the rest.”</p>

<p>I let go of his arm and said:</p>

<p>“I don’t want the dough, but go ahead. I’ll lay off for a couple of
hours. That ought to be long enough.”</p>

<p>“Thanks, chief. Thanks, thanks,” and he hurried away from me.
I put on my coat and hat, went out, found Green Street and the Rutledge
Block. It was a wooden building a long while past any prime it might ever
have had. Mr. Charles Proctor Dawn’s establishment was on the second
floor. There was no elevator. I climbed a worn and rickety flight of
wooden steps.</p>

<p>The lawyer had two rooms, both dingy, smelly, and poorly lighted.
I waited in the outer one while a clerk who went well with the rooms carried
my name in to the lawyer. Half a minute later the clerk opened the
door and beckoned me in.</p>

<p>Mr. Charles Proctor Dawn was a little fat man of fifty-something. He
had prying triangular eyes of a very light color, a short fleshy nose, and a
fleshier mouth whose greediness was only partly hidden between a ragged
gray mustache and a ragged gray Vandyke beard. His clothes were dark
and unclean looking without actually being dirty.</p>

<p>He didn’t get up from his desk, and throughout my visit he kept his
right hand on the edge of a desk drawer that was some six inches open.</p>

<p>He said:</p>

<p>“Ah, my dear sir, I am extremely gratified to find that you had the
good judgment to recognize the value of my counsel.”</p>

<p>His voice was even more oratorical than it had been over the wire.</p>

<p>I didn’t say anything.</p>

<p>Nodding his whiskers as if my not saying anything was another exhibition
of good judgment, he continued:</p>

<p>“I may say, in all justice, that you will find it the invariable part of
sound judgment to follow the dictates of my counsel in all cases. I may
say this, my dear sir, without false modesty, appreciating with both fitting
humility and a deep sense of true and lasting values, my responsibilities
as well as my prerogatives as a—and why should I stoop to conceal the
fact that there are those who feel justified in preferring to substitute the
definite article for the indefinite?—recognized and accepted leader of
the bar in this thriving state.”</p>

<p>He knew a lot of sentences like those, and he didn’t mind using
them on me. Finally he got along to:</p>

<p>“Thus, that conduct which in a minor practitioner might seem
irregular, becomes, when he who exercises it occupies such indisputable
prominence in his community—and, I might say, not merely the immediate
community—as serves to place him above fear of reproach, simply that
greater ethic which scorns the pettier conventionalities when confronted
with an opportunity to serve mankind through one of its individual representatives.
Therefore, my dear sir, I have not hesitated to brush aside
scornfully all trivial considerations of accepted precedent, to summon
you, to say to you frankly and candidly, my dear sir, that your interests
will best be served by and through retaining me as your legal representative.”</p>

<p>I asked:</p>

<p>“What’ll it cost?”</p>

<p>“That,” he said loftily, “is of but secondary importance. However, it
is a detail which has its deserved place in our relationship, and must be
not overlooked or neglected. We shall say, a thousand dollars now. Later,
no doubt—”</p>

<p>He ruffled his whiskers and didn’t finish the sentence.</p>

<p>I said I hadn’t, of course, that much money on me.</p>

<p>“Naturally, my dear sir. Naturally. But that is of not the least importance
in any degree. None whatever. Any time will do for that, any
time up to ten o’clock tomorrow morning.”</p>

<p>“At ten tomorrow,” I agreed. “Now I’d like to know why I’m supposed
to need legal representatives.”</p>

<p>He made an indignant face.</p>

<p>“My dear sir, this is no matter for jesting, of that I assure you.”</p>

<p>I explained that I hadn’t been joking, that I really was puzzled.</p>

<p>He cleared his throat, frowned more or less importantly, said:</p>

<p>“It may well be, my dear sir, that you do not fully comprehend the
peril that surrounds you, but it is indubitably preposterous that you
should expect me to suppose that you are without any inkling of the
difficulties—the legal difficulties, my dear sir—with which you are about to
be confronted, growing, as they do, out of occurrences that took place at
no more remote time than last night, my dear sir, last night. However,
there is no time to go into that now. I have a pressing appointment with
Judge Leffner. On the morrow I shall be glad to go more thoroughly into
each least ramification of the situation—and I assure you they are many—with
you. I shall expect you at ten tomorrow morning.”</p>

<p>I promised to be there, and went out. I spent the evening in my
room, drinking unpleasant whiskey, thinking unpleasant thoughts, and
waiting for reports that didn’t come from Mickey and Dick. I went to
sleep at midnight.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIII</h2><p epub:type="title">Mr. Charles Proctor Dawn</p></hgroup>

<p>I was half dressed the next morning when Dick Foley came
in. He reported, in his word-saving manner, that Bill Quint had checked
out of the Miners’ Hotel at noon the previous day, leaving no forwarding
address.</p>

<p>A train left Personville for Ogden at twelve-thirty-five. Dick had wired
the Continental’s Salt Lake branch to send a man up to Ogden to try to
trace Quint.</p>

<p>“We can’t pass up any leads,” I said, “but I don’t think Quint’s the
man we want. She gave him the air long ago. If he had meant to do anything
about it he would have done it before this. My guess is that when he
heard she had been killed he decided to duck, being a discarded lover
who had threatened her.”</p>

<p>Dick nodded and said:</p>

<p>“Gun play out the road last night. Hijacking. Four trucks of hooch
nailed, burned.”</p>

<p>That sounded like Reno Starkey’s answer to the news that the big
bootlegger’s mob had been sworn in as special coppers.</p>

<p>Mickey Linehan arrived by the time I had finished dressing.</p>

<p>“Dan Rolff was at the house, all right,” he reported. “The Greek
grocer on the corner saw him come out around nine yesterday morning.
He went down the street wobbling and talking to himself. The Greek
thought he was drunk.”</p>

<p>“Howcome the Greek didn’t tell the police? Or did he?”</p>

<p>“Wasn’t asked. A swell department this burg’s got. What do we do:
find him for them and turn him in with the job all tacked up?”</p>

<p>“McGraw has decided Whisper killed her,” I said, “and he’s not
bothering himself with any leads that don’t lead that way. Unless he came
back later for the ice pick, Rolff didn’t turn the trick. She was killed at
three in the morning. Rolff wasn’t there at eight-thirty, and the pick was
still sticking in her. It was—”</p>

<p>Dick Foley came over to stand in front of me and ask:</p>

<p>“How do you know?”</p>

<p>I didn’t like the way he looked or the way he spoke. I said:</p>

<p>“You know because I’m telling you.”</p>

<p>Dick didn’t say anything. Mickey grinned his halfwit’s grin and
asked:</p>

<p>“Where do we go from here? Let’s get this thing polished off.”</p>

<p>“I’ve got a date for ten,” I told them. “Hang around the hotel till I
get back. Whisper and Rolff are probably dead—so we won’t have to hunt
for them.” I scowled at Dick and said: “I was told that. I didn’t kill
either of them.”</p>

<p>The little Canadian nodded without lowering his eyes from mine.</p>

<p>I ate breakfast alone, and then set out for the lawyer’s office.</p>

<p>Turning off King Street, I saw Hank O’Marra’s freckled face in an
automobile that was going up Green Street. He was sitting beside a man
I didn’t know. The long-legged youngster waved an arm at me and stopped
the car. I went over to him.</p>

<p>He said:</p>

<p>“Reno wants to see you.”</p>

<p>“Where will I find him?”</p>

<p>“Jump in.”</p>

<p>“I can’t go now,” I said. “Probably not till afternoon.”</p>

<p>“See Peak when you’re ready.”</p>

<p>I said I would. O’Marra and his companion drove on up Green Street.
I walked half a block south to the Rutledge Block.</p>

<p>With a foot on the first of the rickety steps that led up to the lawyer’s
floor, I stopped to look at something.</p>

<p>It was barely visible back in a dim corner of the first floor. It was a
shoe. It was lying in a position that empty shoes don’t lie in.</p>

<p>I took my foot off the step and went toward the shoe. Now I could
see an ankle and the cuff of a black pants-leg above the shoe-top.</p>

<p>That prepared me for what I found.</p>

<p>I found Mr. Charles Proctor Dawn huddled among two brooms, a
mop and a bucket, in a little alcove formed by the back of the stairs and
a corner of the wall. His Vandyke beard was red with blood from a cut
that ran diagonally across his forehead. His head was twisted sidewise
and backward at an angle that could only be managed with a broken neck.</p>

<p>I quoted Noonan’s, “What’s got to be done has got to be done,” to
myself, and, gingerly pulling one side of the dead man’s coat out of the
way, emptied his inside coat pocket, transferring a black book and a
sheaf of papers to my own pocket. In two of his other pockets I found
nothing I wanted. The rest of his pockets couldn’t be got at without moving
him, and I didn’t care to do that.</p>

<hr/>

<p>Five minutes later I was back in the hotel, going in through a side door,
to avoid Dick and Mickey in the lobby, and walking up to the mezzanine
to take an elevator.</p>

<p>In my room I sat down and examined my loot.</p>

<p>I took the book first, a small imitation-leather memoranda book of
the sort that sells for not much money in any stationery store. It held
some fragmentary notes that meant nothing to me, and thirty-some names
and addresses that meant as little, with one exception:</p>

<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-top:1em;font-style:italic;">Helen Albury</p>
<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-bottom:1em;font-style:italic;">1229A Hurricane St.</p>

<p>That was interesting because, first, a young man named Robert Albury
was in prison, having confessed that he shot and killed Donald
Willsson in a fit of jealousy aroused by Willsson’s supposed success with
Dinah Brand; and, second, Dinah Brand had lived, and had been murdered,
at 1232 Hurricane Street, across the street from 1229A.</p>

<p>I did not find my name in the book.</p>

<p>I put the book aside and began unfolding and reading the papers I
had taken with it. Here too I had to wade through a lot that didn’t
mean anything to find something that did.</p>

<p>This find was a group of four letters held together by a rubber band.</p>

<p>The letters were in slitted envelopes that had postmarks dated a
week apart, on the average. The latest was a little more than six months
old. The letters were addressed to Dinah Brand. The first—that is, the
earliest—wasn’t so bad, for a love letter. The second was a bit goofier. The
third and fourth were swell examples of how silly an ardent and unsuccessful
wooer can be, especially if he’s getting on in years. The four letters
were signed by Elihu Willsson.</p>

<p>I had not found anything to tell me definitely why Mr. Charles
Proctor Dawn had thought he could blackmail me out of a thousand
dollars, but I had found plenty to think about. I encouraged my brain
with two Fatimas, and then went downstairs.</p>

<p>“Go out and see what you can raise on a lawyer named Charles Proctor
Dawn,” I told Mickey. “He’s got offices in Green Street. Stay away
from them. Don’t put in a lot of time on him. I just want a rough line
quick.”</p>

<p>I told Dick to give me a five-minute start and then follow me out to
the neighborhood of 1229A Hurricane Street.</p>

<hr/>

<p>1229A was the upper flat in a two-story building almost directly opposite
Dinah’s house. 1229 was divided into two flats, with a private entrance
for each. I rang the bell at the one I wanted.</p>

<p>The door was opened by a thin girl of eighteen or nineteen with
dark eyes set close together in a shiny yellowish face under short-cut
brown hair that looked damp.</p>

<p>She opened the door, made a choked, frightened sound in her
throat, and backed away from me, holding both hands to her open mouth.</p>

<p>“Miss Helen Albury?” I asked.</p>

<p>She shook her head violently from side to side. There was no truthfulness
in it. Her eyes were crazy.</p>

<p>I said:</p>

<p>“I’d like to come in and talk to you a few minutes,” going in as I
spoke, closing the door behind me.</p>

<p>She didn’t say anything. She went up the steps in front of me, her
head twisted around so she could watch me with her scary eyes.</p>

<p>We went into a scantily furnished living room. Dinah’s house could
be seen from its windows.</p>

<p>The girl stood in the center of the floor, her hands still to her mouth.</p>

<p>I wasted time and words trying to convince her that I was harmless.
It was no good. Everything I said seemed to increase her panic. It was a
damned nuisance. I quit trying, and got down to business.</p>

<p>“You are Robert Albury’s sister?” I asked.</p>

<p>No reply, nothing but the senseless look of utter fear.</p>

<p>I said:</p>

<p>“After he was arrested for killing Donald Willsson you took this flat
so you could watch her. What for?”</p>

<p>Not a word from her. I had to supply my own answer:</p>

<p>“Revenge. You blamed Dinah Brand for your brother’s trouble. You
watched for your chance. It came the night before last. You sneaked into
her house, found her drunk, stabbed her with the ice pick you found
there.”</p>

<p>She didn’t say anything. I hadn’t succeeded in jolting the blankness
out of her frightened face. I said:</p>

<p>“Dawn helped you, engineered it for you. He wanted Elihu Willsson’s
letters. Who was the man he sent to get them, the man who did
the actual killing? Who was he?”</p>

<p>That got me nothing. No change in her expression, or lack of expression.
No word. I thought I would like to spank her. I said:</p>

<p>“I’ve given you your chance to talk. I’m willing to listen to your side
of the story. But suit yourself.”</p>

<p>She suited herself by keeping quiet. I gave it up. I was afraid of her,
afraid she would do something even crazier than her silence if I pressed
her further. I went out of the flat not sure that she had understood a
single word I had said.</p>

<p>At the corner I told Dick Foley:</p>

<p>“There’s a girl in there, Helen Albury, eighteen, five six, skinny, not
more than a hundred, if that, eyes close together, brown, yellow skin,
brown short hair, straight, got on a gray suit now. Tail her. If she cuts up
on you throw her in the can. Be careful—she’s crazy as a bedbug.”</p>

<hr/>

<p>I set out for Peak Murry’s dump, to locate Reno and see what he
wanted. Half a block from my destination I stepped into an office building
doorway to look the situation over.</p>

<p>A police patrol wagon stood in front of Murry’s. Men were being led,
dragged, carried, from pool room to wagon. The leaders, draggers, and
carriers did not look like regular coppers. They were, I supposed, Pete
the Finn’s crew, now special officers. Pete, with McGraw’s help, apparently
was making good his threat to give Whisper and Reno all the war
they wanted.</p>

<p>While I watched, an ambulance arrived, was loaded, and drove away.
I was too far away to recognize anybody or any bodies. When the height
of the excitement seemed past I circled a couple of blocks and returned
to my hotel.</p>

<p>Mickey Linehan was there with information about Mr. Charles
Proctor Dawn.</p>

<p>“He’s the guy that the joke was wrote about: ‘Is he a criminal lawyer?’
‘Yes, very.’ This fellow Albury that you nailed, some of his family
hired this bird Dawn to defend him. Albury wouldn’t have anything to
do with him when Dawn came to see him. This three-named shyster nearly
went over himself last year, on a blackmail rap, something to do with a
parson named Hill, but squirmed out of it. Got some property out on
Libert Street, wherever that is. Want me to keep digging?”</p>

<p>“That’ll do. We’ll stick around till we hear from Dick.”</p>

<p>Mickey yawned and said that was all right with him, never being
one that had to run around a lot to keep his blood circulating, and asked
if I knew we were getting nationally famous.</p>

<p>I asked him what he meant by that.</p>

<p>“I just ran into Tommy Robins,” he said. “The Consolidated Press
sent him here to cover the doings. He tells me some of the other press
associations and a big-city paper or two are sending in special correspondents,
beginning to play our troubles up.”</p>

<p>I was making one of my favorite complaints—that newspapers were
good for nothing except to hash things up so nobody could unhash them—when
I heard a boy chanting my name. For a dime he told me I was
wanted on the phone.</p>

<p>Dick Foley:</p>

<p>“She showed right away. To 310 Green Street. Full of coppers.
Mouthpiece named Dawn killed. Police took her to the Hall.”</p>

<p>“She still there?”</p>

<p>“Yes, in the chief’s office.”</p>

<p>“Stick, and get anything you pick up to me quick.”</p>

<p>I went back to Mickey Linehan and gave him my room key and
instructions:</p>

<p>“Camp in my room. Take anything that comes for me and pass it on.
I’ll be at the Shannon around the corner, registered as J. W. Clark. Tell
Dick and nobody.”</p>

<p>Mickey asked, “What the hell?” got no answer, and moved his loose-jointed
bulk toward the elevators.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h2><p epub:type="title">Wanted</p></hgroup>

<p>I went around to the Shannon Hotel, registered my alias,
paid my day’s rent, and was taken to room 321.</p>

<p>An hour passed before the phone rang.</p>

<p>Dick Foley said he was coming up to see me.</p>

<p>He arrived within five minutes. His thin worried face was not
friendly. Neither was his voice. He said:</p>

<p>“Warrants out for you. Murder. Two counts—Brand and Dawn. I
phoned. Mickey said he’d stick. Told me you were here. Police got him.
Grilling him now.”</p>

<p>“Yeah, I expected that.”</p>

<p>“So did I,” he said sharply.</p>

<p>I said, making myself drawl the words:</p>

<p>“You think I killed them, don’t you, Dick?”</p>

<p>“If you didn’t, it’s a good time to say so.”</p>

<p>“Going to put the finger on me?” I asked.</p>

<p>He pulled his lips back over his teeth. His face changed from tan to
buff.</p>

<p>I said:</p>

<p>“Go back to San Francisco, Dick. I’ve got enough to do without having
to watch you.”</p>

<p>He put his hat on very carefully and very carefully closed the door
behind him when he went out.</p>

<p>At four o’clock I had some lunch, cigarettes, and an <i>Evening Herald</i>
sent up to me.</p>

<p>Dinah Brand’s murder, and the newer murder of Charles Proctor
Dawn, divided the front page of the <i>Herald</i>, with Helen Albury connecting
them.</p>

<p>Helen Albury was, I read, Robert Albury’s sister, and she was, in
spite of his confession, thoroughly convinced that her brother was not
guilty of murder, but the victim of a plot. She had retained Charles
Proctor Dawn to defend him. (I could guess that the late Charles Proctor
had hunted her up, and not she him.) The brother refused to have Dawn
or any other lawyer, but the girl (properly encouraged by Dawn, no
doubt) had not given up the fight.</p>

<p>Finding a vacant flat across the street from Dinah Brand’s house,
Helen Albury had rented it, and had installed herself therein with a pair
of field glasses and one idea—to prove that Dinah and her associates were
guilty of Donald Willsson’s murder.</p>

<p>I, it seems, was one of the “associates.” The <i>Herald</i> called me “a
man supposed to be a private detective from San Francisco, who has been
in the city for several days, apparently on intimate terms with Max
(‘Whisper’) Thaler, Daniel Rolff, Oliver (‘Reno’) Starkey, and Dinah
Brand.” We were the plotters who had framed Robert Albury.</p>

<p>The night that Dinah had been killed, Helen Albury, peeping
through her window, had seen things that were, according to the <i>Herald</i>,
extremely significant when considered in connection with the subsequent
finding of Dinah’s dead body. As soon as the girl heard of the murder,
she took her important knowledge to Charles Proctor Dawn. He, the police
learned from his clerks, immediately sent for me, and had been closeted
with me that afternoon. He had later told his clerks that I was to return
the next—this—morning at ten. This morning I had not appeared to keep
my appointment. At twenty-five minutes past ten, the janitor of the Rutledge
Block had found Charles Proctor Dawn’s body in a corner behind
the staircase, murdered. It was believed that valuable papers had been
taken from the dead man’s pockets.</p>

<p>At the very moment that the janitor was finding the dead lawyer, I,
it seems, was in Helen Albury’s flat, having forced an entrance, and was
threatening her. After she succeeded in throwing me out, she hurried to
Dawn’s offices, arriving while the police were there, telling them her story.
Police sent to my hotel had not found me there, but in my room they had
found one Michael Linehan, who also represented himself to be a San
Francisco private detective. Michael Linehan was still being questioned
by the police. Whisper, Reno, Rolff and I were being hunted by the police,
charged with murder. Important developments were expected.</p>

<p>Page two held an interesting half-column. Detectives Shepp and
Vanaman, the discoverers of Dinah Brand’s body, had mysteriously vanished.
Foul play on the part of us “associates” was feared.</p>

<p>There was nothing in the paper about last night’s hijacking, nothing
about the raid on Peak Murry’s joint.</p>

<hr/>

<p>I went out after dark. I wanted to get in touch with Reno.</p>

<p>From a drug store I phoned Peak Murry’s pool room.</p>

<p>“Is Peak there?” I asked.</p>

<p>“This is Peak,” said a voice that didn’t sound anything at all like
his. “Who’s talking?”</p>

<p>I said disgustedly, “This is Lillian Gish,” hung up the receiver, and
removed myself from the neighborhood.</p>

<p>I gave up the idea of finding Reno and decided to go calling on my
client, old Elihu, and try to blackjack him into good behavior with the
love letters he had written Dinah Brand, and which I had stolen from
Dawn’s remains.</p>

<p>I walked, keeping to the darker side of the darkest streets. It was a
fairly long walk for a man who sneers at exercise. By the time I reached
Willsson’s block I was in bad enough humor to be in good shape for the
sort of interviews he and I usually had. But I wasn’t to see him for a little
while yet.</p>

<p>I was two pavements from my destination when somebody <i>S-s-s-s-s’d</i>
at me.</p>

<p>I probably didn’t jump twenty feet.</p>

<p>“ ’S all right,” a voice whispered.</p>

<p>It was dark there. Peeping out under my bush—I was on my hands
and knees in somebody’s front yard—I could make out the form of a man
crouching close to a hedge, on my side of it.</p>

<p>My gun was in my hand now. There was no special reason why I
shouldn’t take his word for it that it was all right.</p>

<p>I got up off my knees and went to him. When I got close enough I
recognized him as one of the men who had let me into the Ronney Street
house the day before.</p>

<p>I sat on my heels beside him and asked:</p>

<p>“Where’ll I find Reno? Hank O’Marra said he wanted to see me.”</p>

<p>“He does that. Know where Kid McLeod’s place is at?”</p>

<p>“No.”</p>

<p>“It’s on Martin Street above King, corner the alley. Ask for the Kid.
Go back that-away three blocks, and then down. You can’t miss it.”</p>

<p>I said I’d try not to, and left him crouching behind his hedge, watching
my client’s place, waiting, I guessed, for a shot at Pete the Finn,
Whisper, or any of Reno’s other unfriends who might happen to call on
old Elihu.</p>

<p>Following directions, I came to a soft drink and rummy establishment
with red and yellow paint all over it. Inside I asked for Kid McLeod.
I was taken into a back room, where a fat man with a dirty collar, a lot of
gold teeth, and only one ear, admitted he was McLeod.</p>

<p>“Reno sent for me,” I said. “Where’ll I find him?”</p>

<p>“And who does that make you?” he asked.</p>

<p>I told him who I was. He went out without saying anything. I waited
ten minutes. He brought a boy back with him, a kid of fifteen or so with
a vacant expression on a pimply red face.</p>

<p>“Go with Sonny,” Kid McLeod told me.</p>

<p>I followed the boy out a side door, down two blocks of back street,
across a sandy lot, through a ragged gate, and up to the back door of a
frame house.</p>

<p>The boy knocked on the door and was asked who he was.</p>

<p>“Sonny, with a guy the Kid sent,” he replied.</p>

<p>The door was opened by long-legged O’Marra. Sonny went away. I
went into a kitchen where Reno Starkey and four other men sat around
a table that had a lot of beer on it. I noticed that two automatic pistols
hung on nails over the top of the door through which I had come. They
would be handy if any of the house’s occupants opened the door, found
an enemy with a gun there, and were told to put up their hands.</p>

<p>Reno poured me a glass of beer and led me through the dining room
into a front room. A man lay on his belly there, with one eye to the crack
between the drawn blind and the bottom of the window, watching the
street.</p>

<p>“Go back and get yourself some beer,” Reno told him.</p>

<p>He got up and went away. We made ourselves comfortable in adjoining
chairs.</p>

<p>“When I fixed up that Tanner alibi for you,” Reno said, “I told you
I was doing it because I needed all the friends I could get.”</p>

<p>“You got one.”</p>

<p>“Crack the alibi yet?” he asked.</p>

<p>“Not yet.”</p>

<p>“It’ll hold,” he assured me, “unless they got too damned much on
you. Think they have?”</p>

<p>I did think so. I said:</p>

<p>“No. McGraw’s just feeling playful. That’ll take care of itself. How’s
your end holding up?”</p>

<p>He emptied his glass, wiped his mouth on the back of a hand, and
said:</p>

<p>“I’ll make out. But that’s what I wanted to see you about. Here’s
how she stacks up. Pete’s throwed in with McGraw. That lines coppers
and beer mob up against me and Whisper. But hell! Me and Whisper are
busier trying to put the chive in each other than bucking the combine.
That’s a sour racket. While we’re tangling, them bums will eat us up.”</p>

<p>I said I had been thinking the same thing. He went on:</p>

<p>“Whisper’ll listen to you. Find him, will you? Put it to him. Here’s
the proposish: he means to get me for knocking off Jerry Hooper, and I
mean to get him first. Let’s forget that for a couple of days. Nobody won’t
have to trust nobody else. Whisper don’t ever show in any of his jobs
anyways. He just sends the boys. I’ll do the same this time. We’ll just put
the mobs together to swing the caper. We run them together, rub out
that damned Finn, and then we’ll have plenty of time to go gunning
among ourselves.</p>

<p>“Put it to him cold. I don’t want him to get any ideas that I’m dodging
a rumpus with him or any other guy. Tell him I say if we put Pete
out of the way we’ll have more room to do our own scrapping in. Pete’s
holed-up down in Whiskeytown. I ain’t got enough men to go down there
and pull him out. Neither has Whisper. The two of us together has. Put
it to him.”</p>

<p>“Whisper,” I said, “is dead.”</p>

<p>Reno said, “Is that so?” as if he thought it wasn’t.</p>

<p>“Dan Rolff killed him yesterday morning, down in the old Redman
warehouse, stuck him with the ice pick Whisper had used on the girl.”</p>

<p>Reno asked:</p>

<p>“You know this? You’re not just running off at the head?”</p>

<p>“I know it.”</p>

<p>“Damned funny none of his mob act like he was gone,” he said, but
he was beginning to believe me.</p>

<p>“They don’t know it. He was hiding out, with Ted Wright the only
one in on the where. Ted knew it. He cashed in on it. He told me he got
a hundred or a hundred and fifty from you, through Peak Murry.”</p>

<p>“I’d have given the big umpchay twice that for the straight dope,”
Reno grumbled. He rubbed his chin and said: “Well, that settles the
Whisper end.”</p>

<p>I said: “No.”</p>

<p>“What do you mean, no?”</p>

<p>“If his mob don’t know where he is,” I suggested, “let’s tell them.
They blasted him out of the can when Noonan copped him. Think they’d
try it again if the news got around that McGraw had picked him up on
the quiet?”</p>

<p>“Keep talking,” Reno said.</p>

<p>“If his friends try to crack the hoosegow again, thinking he’s in it,
that’ll give the department, including Pete’s specials, something to do.
While they’re doing it, you could try your luck in Whiskeytown.”</p>

<p>“Maybe,” he said slowly, “maybe we’ll try just that thing.”</p>

<p>“It ought to work,” I encouraged him, standing up. “I’ll see you—”</p>

<p>“Stick around. This is as good a spot as any while there’s a reader out
for you. And we’ll need a good guy like you on the party.”</p>

<p>I didn’t like that so much. I knew enough not to say so. I sat down
again.</p>

<p>Reno got busy arranging the rumor. The telephone was worked overtime.
The kitchen door was worked as hard, letting men in and out. More
came in than went out. The house filled with men, smoke, tension.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXV</h2><p epub:type="title">Whiskeytown</p></hgroup>

<p>At half-past one Reno turned from answering a phone call
to say:</p>

<p>“Let’s take a ride.”</p>

<p>He went upstairs. When he came down he carried a black valise.
Most of the men had gone out the kitchen door by then.</p>

<p>Reno gave me the black valise, saying:</p>

<p>“Don’t wrastle it around too much.”</p>

<p>It was heavy.</p>

<p>The seven of us left in the house went out the front door and got into
a curtained touring car that O’Marra had just driven up to the curb. Reno
sat beside O’Marra. I was squeezed in between men in the back seat, with
the valise squeezed between my legs.</p>

<p>Another car came out of the first cross street to run ahead of us. A
third followed us. Our speed hung around forty, fast enough to get us
somewhere, not fast enough to get us a lot of attention.</p>

<p>We had nearly finished the trip before we were bothered.</p>

<p>The action started in a block of one-story houses of the shack type,
down in the southern end of the city.</p>

<p>A man put his head out of a door, put his fingers in his mouth, and
whistled shrilly.</p>

<p>Somebody in the car behind us shot him down.</p>

<p>At the next corner we ran through a volley of pistol bullets.</p>

<p>Reno turned around to tell me:</p>

<p>“If they pop the bag, we’ll all of us hit the moon. Get it open. We
got to work fast when we get there.”</p>

<p>I had the fasteners unsnapped by the time we came to rest at the
curb in front of a dark three-story brick building.</p>

<p>Men crawled all over me, opening the valise, helping themselves to
the contents, bombs made of short sections of two-inch pipe, packed in
sawdust in the bag. Bullets bit chunks out of the car’s curtains.</p>

<p>Reno reached back for one of the bombs, hopped out to the sidewalk,
paid no attention to a streak of blood that suddenly appeared in the middle
of his left cheek, and heaved his piece of stuffed pipe at the brick
building’s door.</p>

<p>A sheet of flame was followed by deafening noise. Hunks of things
pelted us while we tried to keep from being knocked over by the concussion.
Then there was no door to keep anybody out of the red brick building.</p>

<p>A man ran forward, swung his arm, let a pipeful of hell go through
the doorway. The shutters came off the downstairs windows, fire and glass
flying behind them.</p>

<p>The car that had followed us was stationary up the street, trading
shots with the neighborhood. The car that had gone ahead of us had
turned into a side street. Pistol shots from behind the red brick building,
between the explosions of our cargo, told us that our advance car was
covering the back door.</p>

<p>O’Marra, out in the middle of the street, bent far over, tossed a
bomb to the brick building’s roof. It didn’t explode. O’Marra put one
foot high in the air, clawed at his throat, and fell solidly backward.</p>

<p>Another of our party went down under the slugs that were cutting at
us from a wooden building next to the brick one.</p>

<p>Reno cursed stolidly and said:</p>

<p>“Burn them out, Fat.”</p>

<p>Fat spit on a bomb, ran around the back of our car, and swung his
arm.</p>

<p>We picked ourselves up off the sidewalk, dodged flying things, and
saw that the frame house was all out of whack, with flames climbing its
torn edges.</p>

<p>“Any left?” Reno asked as we looked around, enjoying the novelty of
not being shot at.</p>

<p>“Here’s the last one,” Fat said, holding out a bomb.</p>

<p>Fire was dancing inside the upper windows of the brick house. Reno
looked at it, took the bomb from Fat, and said:</p>

<p>“Back off. They’ll be coming out.”</p>

<p>We moved away from the front of the house.</p>

<p>A voice indoors yelled:</p>

<p>“Reno!”</p>

<p>Reno slipped into the shadow of our car before he called back:</p>

<p>“Well?”</p>

<p>“We’re done,” a heavy voice shouted. “We’re coming out. Don’t
shoot.”</p>

<p>Reno asked: “Who’s we’re?”</p>

<p>“This is Pete,” the heavy voice said. “There’s four left of us.”</p>

<p>“You come first,” Reno ordered, “with your mitts on the top of your
head. The others come out one at a time, same way, after you. And half
a minute apart is close enough. Come on.”</p>

<p>We waited a moment, and then Pete the Finn appeared in the dynamited
doorway, his hands holding the top of his bald head. In the glare
from the burning next-door house we could see that his face was cut, his
clothes almost all torn off.</p>

<p>Stepping over wreckage, the bootlegger came slowly down the steps to
the sidewalk.</p>

<p>Reno called him a lousy fish-eater and shot him four times in face
and body.</p>

<p>Pete went down. A man behind me laughed.</p>

<p>Reno hurled the remaining bomb through the doorway.</p>

<p>We scrambled into our car. Reno took the wheel. The engine was
dead. Bullets had got to it.</p>

<p>Reno worked the horn while the rest of us piled out.</p>

<p>The machine that had stopped at the corner came for us. Waiting
for it, I looked up and down the street that was bright with the glow of
two burning buildings. There were a few faces at windows, but whoever
besides us was in the street had taken to cover. Not far away, firebells
sounded.</p>

<p>The other machine slowed up for us to climb aboard. It was already
full. We packed it in layers, with the overflow hanging on the running
boards.</p>

<p>We bumped over dead Hank O’Marra’s legs and headed for home.
We covered one block of the distance with safety if not comfort. After
that we had neither.</p>

<p>A limousine turned into the street ahead of us, came half a block
toward us, put its side to us, and stopped. Out of the side, gun-fire.</p>

<p>Another car came around the limousine and charged us. Out of it,
gun-fire.</p>

<p>We did our best, but we were too damned amalgamated for good
fighting. You can’t shoot straight holding a man in your lap, another
hanging on your shoulder, while a third does his shooting from an inch
behind your ear.</p>

<p>Our other car—the one that had been around at the building’s rear—came
up and gave us a hand. But by then two more had joined the opposition.
Apparently Thaler’s mob’s attack on the jail was over, one way or
the other, and Pete’s army, sent to help there, had returned in time to
spoil our get-away. It was a sweet mess.</p>

<p>I leaned over a burning gun and yelled in Reno’s ear:</p>

<p>“This is the bunk. Let’s us extras get out and do our wrangling from
the street.”</p>

<p>He thought that a good idea, and gave orders:</p>

<p>“Pile out, some of you hombres, and take them from the pavements.”</p>

<p>I was the first man out, with my eye on a dark alley entrance.</p>

<p>Fat followed me to it. In my shelter, I turned on him and growled:</p>

<p>“Don’t pile up on me. Pick your own hole. There’s a cellarway that
looks good.”</p>

<p>He agreeably trotted off toward it, and was shot down at his third
step.</p>

<p>I explored my alley. It was only twenty feet long, and ended against
a high board fence with a locked gate.</p>

<p>A garbage can helped me over the gate into a brick-paved yard. The
side fence of that yard let me into another, and from that I got into another,
where a fox terrier raised hell at me.</p>

<p>I kicked the pooch out of the way, made the opposite fence, untangled
myself from a clothes line, crossed two more yards, got yelled at from
a window, had a bottle thrown at me, and dropped into a cobblestoned
back street.</p>

<p>The shooting was behind me, but not far enough. I did all I could to
remedy that. I must have walked as many streets as I did in my dreams
the night Dinah was killed.</p>

<p>My watch said it was three-thirty a. m. when I looked at it on Elihu
Willsson’s front steps.</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVI</h2><p epub:type="title">Blackmail</p></hgroup>

<p>I had to push my client’s doorbell a lot before I got any play
on it.</p>

<p>Finally the door was opened by the tall sunburned chauffeur. He
was dressed in undershirt and pants, and had a billiard cue in one fist.</p>

<p>“What do you want?” he demanded, and then, when he got another
look at me: “It’s you, is it? Well, what do you want?”</p>

<p>“I want to see Mr. Willsson.”</p>

<p>“At four in the morning? Go on with you,” and he started to close
the door.</p>

<p>I put a foot against it. He looked from my foot to my face, hefted the
billiard cue, and asked:</p>

<p>“You after getting your kneecap cracked?”</p>

<p>“I’m not playing,” I insisted. “I’ve got to see the old man. Tell him.”</p>

<p>“I don’t have to tell him. He told me no later than this afternoon
that if you come around he didn’t want to see you.”</p>

<p>“Yeah?” I took the four love letters out of my pocket, picked out the
first and least idiotic of them, held it out to the chauffeur, and said: “Give
him that and tell him I’m sitting on the steps with the rest of them. Tell
him I’ll sit here five minutes and then carry the rest of them to Tommy
Robins of the Consolidated Press.”</p>

<p>The chauffeur scowled at the letter, said, “To hell with Tommy
Robins and his blind aunt!” took the letter, and closed the door.</p>

<p>Four minutes later he opened the door again and said:</p>

<p>“Inside, you.”</p>

<p>I followed him upstairs to old Elihu’s bedroom.</p>

<p>My client sat up in bed with his love letter crushed in one round
pink fist, its envelope in the other.</p>

<p>His short white hair bristled. His round eyes were as much red as
blue. The parallel lines of his mouth and chin almost touched. He was in
a lovely humor.</p>

<p>As soon as he saw me he shouted:</p>

<p>“So after all your brave talking you had to come back to the old
pirate to have your neck saved, did you?”</p>

<p>I said I didn’t anything of the sort. I said if he was going to talk like
a sap he ought to lower his voice so the people in Los Angeles wouldn’t
learn what a sap he was.</p>

<p>The old boy let his voice out another notch, bellowing:</p>

<p>“Because you’ve stolen a letter or two that don’t belong to you, you
needn’t think you—”</p>

<p>I put fingers in my ears. They didn’t shut out the noise, but they
insulted him into cutting the bellowing short.</p>

<p>I took the fingers out and said:</p>

<p>“Send the flunkey away so we can talk. You won’t need him. I’m not
going to hurt you.”</p>

<p>He said, “Get out,” to the chauffeur.</p>

<p>The chauffeur, looking at me without fondness, left us, closing the
door.</p>

<p>Old Elihu gave me the rush act, demanding that I surrender the rest
of the letters immediately, wanting to know loudly and profanely where
I had got them, what I was doing with them, threatening me with this,
that, and the other, but mostly just cursing me.</p>

<p>I didn’t surrender the letters. I said:</p>

<p>“I took them from the man you hired to recover them. A tough
break for you that he had to kill the girl.”</p>

<p>Enough red went out of the old man’s face to leave it normally pink.
He worked his lips over his teeth, screwed up his eyes at me, and said:</p>

<p>“Is that the way you’re going to play it?”</p>

<p>His voice came comparatively quiet from his chest. He had settled
down to fight.</p>

<p>I pulled a chair over beside the bed, sat down, put as much amusement
as I could in a grin, and said:</p>

<p>“That’s one way.”</p>

<p>He watched me, working his lips, saying nothing. I said:</p>

<p>“You’re the damndest client I ever had. What do you do? You hire
me to clean town, change your mind, run out on me, work against me
until I begin to look like a winner, then get on the fence, and now when
you think I’m licked again, you don’t even want to let me in the house.
Lucky for me I happened to run across those letters.”</p>

<p>He said: “Blackmail.”</p>

<p>I laughed and said:</p>

<p>“Listen who’s naming it. All right, call it that.” I tapped the edge of
the bed with a forefinger. “I’m not licked, old top. I’ve won. You came
crying to me that some naughty men had taken your little city away from
you. Pete the Finn, Lew Yard, Whisper Thaler, and Noonan. Where
are they now?</p>

<p>“Yard died Tuesday morning, Noonan the same night, Whisper
Wednesday morning, and the Finn a little while ago. I’m giving your city
back to you whether you want it or not. If that’s blackmail, O. K. Now
here’s what you’re going to do. You’re going to get hold of your mayor, I
suppose the lousy village has got one, and you and he are going to phone
the governor—Keep still until I get through.</p>

<p>“You’re going to tell the governor that your city police have got out
of hand, what with bootleggers sworn in as officers, and so on. You’re going
to ask him for help—the national guard would be best. I don’t know how
various ruckuses around town have come out, but I do know the big boys—the
ones you were afraid of—are dead. The ones that had too much on
you for you to stand up to them. There are plenty of busy young men
working like hell right now, trying to get into the dead men’s shoes. The
more, the better. They’ll make it easier for the white-collar soldiers to
take hold while everything is disorganized. And none of the substitutes
are likely to have enough on you to do much damage.</p>

<p>“You’re going to have the mayor, or the governor, whichever it comes
under, suspend the whole Personville police department, and let the mail-order
troops handle things till you can organize another. I’m told that the
mayor and the governor are both pieces of your property. They’ll do what
you tell them. And that’s what you’re going to tell them. It can be done,
and it’s got to be done.</p>

<p>“Then you’ll have your city back, all nice and clean and ready to go
to the dogs again. If you don’t do it, I’m going to turn these love letters of
yours over to the newspaper buzzards, and I don’t mean your <i>Herald</i> crew—the
press associations. I got the letters from Dawn. You’ll have a lot of
fun proving that you didn’t hire him to recover them, and that he didn’t
kill the girl doing it. But the fun you’ll have is nothing to the fun people
will have reading these letters. They’re hot. I haven’t laughed so much
over anything since the hogs ate my kid brother.”</p>

<p>I stopped talking.</p>

<p>The old man was shaking, but there was no fear in his shaking. His
face was purple again. He opened his mouth and roared:</p>

<p>“Publish them and be damned!”</p>

<p>I took them out of my pocket, dropped them on his bed, got up from
my chair, put on my hat, and said:</p>

<p>“I’d give my right leg to be able to believe that the girl was killed by
somebody you sent to get the letters. By God, I’d like to top off the job by
sending you to the gallows!”</p>

<p>He didn’t touch the letters. He said:</p>

<p>“You told me the truth about Thaler and Pete?”</p>

<p>“Yeah. But what difference does it make? You’ll only be pushed
around by somebody else.”</p>

<p>He threw the bedclothes aside and swung his stocky pajamaed legs
and pink feet over the edge of the bed.</p>

<p>“Have you got the guts,” he barked, “to take the job I offered you
once before—chief of police?”</p>

<p>“No. I lost my guts out fighting your fights while you were hiding in
bed and thinking up new ways of disowning me. Find another wet nurse.”</p>

<p>He glared at me. Then shrewd wrinkles came around his eyes.</p>

<p>He nodded his old head and said:</p>

<p>“You’re afraid to take the job. So you did kill the girl?”</p>

<p>I left him as I had left him the last time, saying, “Go to hell!” and
walking out.</p>

<p>The chauffeur, still toting his billiard cue, still regarding me without
fondness, met me on the ground floor and took me to the door, looking as
if he hoped I would start something. I didn’t. He slammed the door after
me.</p>

<hr/>

<p>The street was gray with the beginning of daylight.</p>

<p>Up the street a black coupé stood under some trees. I couldn’t see if
anyone was in it. I played safe by walking in the opposite direction. The
coupé moved after me.</p>

<p>There is nothing in running down streets with automobiles in pursuit.
I stopped, facing this one. It came on. I took my hand away from my
side when I saw Mickey Linehan’s red face through the windshield.</p>

<p>He swung the door open for me to get in.</p>

<p>“I thought you might come up here,” he said as I sat beside him, “but
I was a second or two too late. I saw you go in, but was too far away to
catch you.”</p>

<p>“How’d you make out with the police?” I asked. “Better keep driving
while we talk.”</p>

<p>“I didn’t know anything, couldn’t guess anything, didn’t have any
idea of what you were working on, just happened to hit town and meet
you. Old friends—that line. They were still trying when the riot broke.
They had me in one of the little offices across from the assembly room.
When the circus cut loose I back-windowed them.”</p>

<p>“How’d the circus wind up?” I asked.</p>

<p>“The coppers shot hell out of them. They got the tip-off half an
hour ahead of time, and had the whole neighborhood packed with specials.
Seems it was a juicy row while it lasted—no duck soup for the coppers at
that. Whisper’s mob, I hear.”</p>

<p>“Yeah. Reno and Pete the Finn tangled tonight. Hear anything about
it?”</p>

<p>“Only that they’d had it.”</p>

<p>“Reno killed Pete and ran into an ambush on the get-away. I don’t
know what happened after that. Seen Dick?”</p>

<p>“I went up to his hotel and was told he’d checked out to catch the
evening train.”</p>

<p>“I sent him back home,” I explained. “He seemed to think I’d killed
Dinah Brand. He was getting on my nerves with it.”</p>

<p>“Well?”</p>

<p>“You mean, did I kill her? I don’t know, Mickey. I’m trying to find
out. Want to keep riding with me, or want to follow Dick back to the
Coast?”</p>

<p>Mickey said:</p>

<p>“Don’t get so cocky over one lousy murder that maybe didn’t happen.
But what the hell? You know you didn’t lift her dough and pretties.”</p>

<p>“Neither did the killer. They were still there after eight that morning,
when I left. Dan Rolff was in and out between then and nine. He wouldn’t
have taken them. The—I’ve got it! The coppers that found the body—Shepp
and Vanaman—got there at nine-thirty. Besides the jewelry and
money, some letters old Willsson had written the girl were—must have
been—taken. I found them later in Dawn’s pocket. The two dicks disappeared
just about then. See it?</p>

<p>“When Shepp and Vanaman found the girl dead they looted the
joint before they turned in the alarm. Old Willsson being a millionaire,
his letters looked good to them, so they took them along with the other
valuables, and turned them—the letters—over to the shyster to peddle back
to Elihu. But Dawn was killed before he could do anything on that end. I
took the letters. Shepp and Vanaman, whether they did or didn’t know
that the letters were not found in the dead man’s possession, got cold feet.
They were afraid the letters would be traced to them. They had the money
and jewelry. They lit out.”</p>

<p>“Sounds fair enough,” Mickey agreed, “but it don’t seem to put any
fingers on any murderers.”</p>

<p>“It clears the way some. We’ll try to clear it some more. See if you
can find Porter Street and an old warehouse called Redman. The way I
got it, Rolff killed Whisper there, walked up to him and stabbed him with
the ice pick he had found in the girl. If he did it that way, then Whisper
hadn’t killed her. Or he would have been expecting something of the sort,
and wouldn’t have let the lunger get that close to him. I’d like to look at
their remains and check up.”</p>

<p>“Porter’s over beyond King,” Mickey said. “We’ll try the south end
first. It’s nearer and more likely to have warehouses. Where do you set this
Rolff guy?”</p>

<p>“Out. If he killed Whisper for killing the girl, that marks him off. Besides,
she had bruises on her wrist and cheek, and he wasn’t strong enough
to rough her. My notion is that he left the hospital, spent the night God
knows where, showed up at the girl’s house after I left that morning, let
himself in with his key, found her, decided Whisper had done the trick,
took the sticker out of her, and went hunting Whisper.”</p>

<p>“So?” Mickey said. “Now where do you get the idea that you might
be the boy who put it over?”</p>

<p>“Stop it,” I said grouchily as we turned into Porter Street. “Let’s find
our warehouse.”</p>

<!--se:split--><hgroup><h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXVII</h2><p epub:type="title">Warehouses</p></hgroup>

<p>We rode down the street, jerking our eyes around, hunting
for buildings that looked like deserted warehouses. It was light enough
by now to see well.</p>

<p>Presently I spotted a big square rusty-red building set in the center
of a weedy lot. Disuse stuck out all over lot and building. It had the
look of a likely candidate.</p>

<p>“Pull up at the next corner,” I said. “That looks like the dump.
You stick with the heap while I scout it.”</p>

<p>I walked two unnecessary blocks so I could come into the lot behind
the building. I crossed the lot carefully, not sneaking, but not making
any noises I could avoid.</p>

<p>I tried the back door cautiously. It was locked, of course. I moved
over to a window, tried to look in, couldn’t because of gloom and dirt,
tried the window, and couldn’t budge it.</p>

<p>I went to the next window with the same luck. I rounded the corner
of the building and began working my way along the north side. The first
window had me beaten. The second went up slowly with my push, and
didn’t make much noise doing it.</p>

<p>Across the inside of the window frame, from top to bottom, boards
were nailed. They looked solid and strong from where I stood.</p>

<p>I cursed them, and remembered hopefully that the window hadn’t
made much noise when I raised it. I climbed up on the sill, put a hand
against the boards, and tried them gently.</p>

<p>They gave.</p>

<p>I put more weight behind my hand. The boards went away from the
left side of the frame, showing me a row of shiny nail points.</p>

<p>I pushed them back farther, looked past them, saw nothing but darkness,
heard nothing.</p>

<p>With my gun in my right fist, I stepped over the sill, down into the
building. Another step to the left put me out of the window’s gray light.</p>

<p>I switched my gun to my left hand and used my right to push the
boards back over the window.</p>

<p>A full minute of breathless listening got me nothing. Holding my
gun-arm tight to my side, I began exploring the joint. Nothing but the
floor came under my feet as I inch-by-inched them forward. My groping
left hand felt nothing until it touched a rough wall. I seemed to have
crossed a room that was empty.</p>

<p>I moved along the wall, hunting for a door. Half a dozen of my under-sized
steps brought me to one. I leaned an ear against it, and heard no
sound.</p>

<p>I found the knob, turned it softly, eased the door back.</p>

<p>Something swished.</p>

<p>I did four things all together: let go the knob, jumped, pulled trigger,
and had my left arm walloped with something hard and heavy as a tombstone.</p>

<p>The flare of my gun showed me nothing. It never does, though it’s
easy to think you’ve seen things. Not knowing what else to do, I fired
again, and once more.</p>

<p>An old man’s voice pleaded:</p>

<p>“Don’t do that, partner. You don’t have to do that.”</p>

<p>I said: “Make a light.”</p>

<p>A match spluttered on the floor, kindled, and put flickering yellow
light on a battered face. It was an old face of the useless, characterless sort
that goes well with park benches. He was sitting on the floor, his stringy
legs sprawled far apart. He didn’t seem hurt anywhere. A table-leg lay
beside him.</p>

<p>“Get up and make a light,” I ordered, “and keep matches burning
until you’ve done it.”</p>

<p>He struck another match, sheltered it carefully with his hands as he
got up, crossed the room, and lit a candle on a three-legged table.</p>

<p>I followed him, keeping close. My left arm was numb or I would have
taken hold of him for safety.</p>

<p>“What are you doing here?” I asked when the candle was burning.</p>

<p>I didn’t need his answer. One end of the room was filled with wooden
cases piled six high, branded <i>Perfection Maple Syrup</i>.</p>

<p>While the old man explained that as God was his keeper he didn’t
know nothing about it, that all he knew was that a man named Yates had
two days ago hired him as night watchman, and if anything was wrong he
was as innocent as innocent, I pulled part of the top off one case.</p>

<p>The bottles inside had Canadian Club labels that looked as if they
had been printed with a rubber stamp.</p>

<p>I left the cases and, driving the old man in front of me with the
candle, searched the building. As I expected, I found nothing to indicate
that this was the warehouse Whisper had occupied.</p>

<p>By the time we got back to the room that held the liquor my left arm
was strong enough to lift a bottle. I put it in my pocket and gave the old
man some advice:</p>

<p>“Better clear out. You were hired to take the place of some of the
men Pete the Finn turned into special coppers. But Pete’s dead now and
his racket has gone blooey.”</p>

<p>When I climbed out the window the old man was standing in front
of the cases, looking at them with greedy eyes while he counted on his
fingers.</p>

<hr/>

<p>“Well?” Mickey asked when I returned to him and his coupé.</p>

<p>I took out the bottle of anything but Canadian Club, pulled the
cork, passed it to him, and then put a shot into my own system.</p>

<p>He asked, “Well?” again.</p>

<p>I said: “Let’s try to find the old Redman warehouse.”</p>

<p>He said: “You’re going to ruin yourself some time telling people too
much,” and started the car moving.</p>

<p>Three blocks farther up the street we saw a faded sign, <i>Redman &amp;
Company</i>. The building under the sign was long, low, and narrow, with
corrugated iron roof and few windows.</p>

<p>“We’ll leave the boat around the corner,” I said. “And you’ll go with
me this time. I didn’t have a whole lot of fun by myself last trip.”</p>

<p>When we climbed out of the coupé, an alley ahead promised a path
to the warehouse’s rear. We took it.</p>

<p>A few people were wandering through the streets, but it was still too
early for the factories that filled most of this part of town to come to life.</p>

<p>At the rear of our building we found something interesting. The
back door was closed. Its edge, and the edge of the frame, close to the
lock, were scarred. Somebody had worked there with a jimmy.</p>

<p>Mickey tried the door. It was unlocked. Six inches at a time, with
pauses between, he pushed it far enough back to let us squeeze in.</p>

<p>When we squeezed in we could hear a voice. We couldn’t make out
what the voice was saying. All we could hear was the faint rumble of a
distant man’s voice, with a suggestion of quarrelsomeness in it.</p>

<p>Mickey pointed a thumb at the door’s scar and whispered.</p>

<p>“Not coppers.”</p>

<p>I took two steps inside, keeping my weight on my rubber heels.
Mickey followed, breathing down the back of my neck.</p>

<p>Ted Wright had told me Whisper’s hiding place was in the back, upstairs.
The distant rumbling voice could have been coming from there.</p>

<p>I twisted my face around to Mickey and asked:</p>

<p>“Flashlight?”</p>

<p>He put it in my left hand. I had my gun in my right. We crept forward.</p>

<p>The door, still a foot open, let in enough light to show us the way
across this room to a doorless doorway. The other side of the doorway was
black.</p>

<p>I flicked the light across the blackness, found a door, shut off the
light, and went forward. The next squirt of light showed us steps leading
up.</p>

<p>We went up the steps as if we were afraid they would break under
our feet.</p>

<p>The rumbling voice had stopped. There was something else in the
air. I didn’t know what. Maybe a voice not quite loud enough to be heard,
if that means anything.</p>

<p>I had counted nine steps when a voice spoke clearly above us. It said:</p>

<p>“Sure, I killed the bitch.”</p>

<p>A gun said something, the same thing four times, roaring like a 16-inch
rifle under the iron roof.</p>

<p>The first voice said: “All right.”</p>

<p>By that time Mickey and I had put the rest of the steps behind us,
had shoved a door out of the way, and were trying to pull Reno Starkey’s
hands away from Whisper’s throat.</p>

<p>It was a tough job and a useless one. Whisper was dead.</p>

<p>Reno recognized me and let his hands go limp.</p>

<p>His eyes were as dull, his horse face as wooden, as ever.</p>

<p>Mickey carried the dead gambler to the cot that stood in one end of
the room, spreading him on it.</p>

<p>The room, apparently once an office, had two windows. In their light
I could see a body stowed under the cot—Dan Rolff. A Colt’s service
automatic lay in the middle of the floor.</p>

<p>Reno bent his shoulders, swaying.</p>

<p>“Hurt?” I asked.</p>

<p>“He put all four in me,” he said calmly, bending to press both forearms
against his lower body.</p>

<p>“Get a doc,” I told Mickey.</p>

<p>“No good,” Reno said. “I got no more belly left than Peter Collins.”</p>

<p>I pulled a folding chair over and sat him down on it, so he could
lean forward and hold himself together.</p>

<p>Mickey ran out and down the stairs.</p>

<p>“Did you know he wasn’t croaked?” Reno asked.</p>

<p>“No. I gave it to you the way I got it from Ted Wright.”</p>

<p>“Ted left too soon,” he said. “I was leary of something like that, and
came to make sure. He trapped me pretty, playing dead till I was under
the gun.” He stared dully at Whisper’s corpse. “Game at that, damn him.
Dead, but wouldn’t lay down, bandaging hisself, laying here waiting by
hisself.” He smiled, the only smile I had ever seen him use. “But he’s just
meat and not much of it now.”</p>

<p>His voice was thickening. A little red puddle formed under the
edge of his chair. I was afraid to touch him. Only the pressure of his arms,
and his bent-forward position, were keeping him from falling apart.</p>

<p>He stared at the puddle and asked:</p>

<p>“How the hell did you figure you didn’t croak her?”</p>

<p>“I had to take it out in hoping I hadn’t, till just now,” I said. “I had
you pegged for it, but couldn’t be sure. I was all hopped up that night,
and had a lot of dreams, with bells ringing and voices calling, and a lot of
stuff like that. I got an idea maybe it wasn’t straight dreaming so much
as hop-head nightmares stirred up by things that were happening around
me.</p>

<p>“When I woke up, the lights were out. I didn’t think I killed her,
turned off the light, and went back to take hold of the ice pick. But it
could have happened other ways. You knew I was there that night. You
gave me my alibi without stalling. That got me thinking. Dawn tried
blackmailing me after he heard Helen Albury’s story. The police, after
hearing her story, tied you, Whisper, Rolff and me together. I found
Dawn dead after seeing O’Marra half a block away. It looked like the
shyster had tried blackmailing you. That and the police tying us together
started me thinking the police had as much on the rest of you as on me.
What they had on me was that Helen Albury had seen me go in or out or
both that night. It was a good guess they had the same on the rest of you.
There were reasons for counting Whisper and Rolff out. That left you—and me.
But why you killed her’s got me puzzled.”</p>

<p>“I bet you,” he said, watching the red puddle grow on the floor. “It
was her own damned fault. She calls me up, tells me Whisper’s coming to
see her, and says if I get there first I can bushwhack him. I’d like that. I go
over there, stick around, but he don’t show.”</p>

<p>He stopped, pretending interest in the shape the red puddle was taking.
I knew pain had stopped him, but I knew he would go on talking as
soon as he got himself in hand. He meant to die as he had lived, inside
the same tough shell. Talking could be torture, but he wouldn’t stop on
that account, not while anybody was there to see him. He was Reno Starkey
who could take anything the world had without batting an eye, and
he would play it out that way to the end.</p>

<p>“I got tired of waiting,” he went on after a moment. “I hit her door
and asked howcome. She takes me in, telling me there’s nobody there. I’m
doubtful, but she swears she’s alone, and we go back in the kitchen. Knowing
her, I’m beginning to think maybe it’s me and not Whisper that’s
being trapped.”</p>

<p>Mickey came in, telling us he had phoned for an ambulance.</p>

<p>Reno used the interruption to rest his voice, and then continued with
his story:</p>

<p>“Later, I find that Whisper did phone her he was coming, and got
there before me. You were coked. She was afraid to let him in, so he beat
it. She don’t tell me that, scared I’ll go and leave her. You’re hopped and
she wants protection against Whisper coming back. I don’t know none of
that then. I’m leary that I’ve walked into something, knowing her. I
think I’ll take hold of her and slap the truth out of her. I try it, and she
grabs the pick and screams. When she squawks, I hear a man’s feet hitting
the floor. The trap’s sprung, I think.”</p>

<p>He spoke slower, taking more time and pains to turn each word out
calmly and deliberately, as talking became harder. His voice had become
blurred, but if he knew it he pretended he didn’t.</p>

<p>“I don’t mean to be the only one that’s hurt. I twist the pick out of
her hand and stick it in her. You gallop out, coked to the edges, charging
at the whole world with both eyes shut. She tumbles into you. You go
down, roll around till your hand hits the butt of the pick. Holding on to
that, you go to sleep, peaceful as she is. I see it then, what I’ve done. But
hell! she’s croaked. There’s nothing to do about it. I turn off the lights and
go home. When you—”</p>

<p>A tired looking ambulance crew—Poisonville gave them plenty of
work—brought a litter into the room, ending Reno’s tale. I was glad of it.
I had all the information I wanted, and sitting there listening to and
watching him talk himself to death wasn’t pleasant.</p>

<p>I took Mickey over to a corner of the room and muttered in his ear:</p>

<p>“The job’s yours from now on. I’m going to duck. I ought to be in the
clear, but I know my Poisonville too well to take any chances. I’ll drive
your car to some way station where I can catch a train for Ogden. I’ll be
at the Roosevelt Hotel there, registered as P. F. King. Stay with the job,
and let me know when it’s wise to either take my own name again or a
trip to Honduras.”</p>

<p>I spent most of my week in Ogden trying to fix up my reports so they
would not read as if I had broken as many Agency rules, state laws and
human bones as I had.</p>

<p>Mickey arrived on the sixth night.</p>

<p>He told me that Reno was dead, that I was no longer officially a
criminal, that most of the First National Bank stick-up loot had been recovered,
that MacSwain had confessed killing Tim Noonan, and that Personville,
under martial law, was developing into a sweet-smelling and
thornless bed of roses.</p>

<p>Mickey and I went back to San Francisco.</p>

<p>I might just as well have saved the labor and sweat I had put into
trying to make my reports harmless. They didn’t fool the Old Man. He gave
me merry hell.</p>


