<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XVI: Exit Jerry</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-16" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XVI</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Exit Jerry</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>There was a mob around the First National Bank. We pushed through it to the door, where we found sour-faced McGraw.</p>
			<p>“Was six of them, masked,” he reported to the chief as we went inside. “They hit it about two-thirty. Five of them got away clean with the jack. The watchman here dropped one of them, Jerry Hooper. He’s over on the bench, cold. We got the roads blocked, and I wired around, if it ain’t too late. Last seen of them was when they made the turn into King Street, in a black Lincoln.”</p>
			<p>We went over to look at the dead Jerry, lying on one of the lobby benches with a brown robe over him. The bullet had gone in under his left shoulder blade.</p>
			<p>The bank watchman, a harmless looking old duffer, pushed up his chest and told us about it:</p>
			<p>“There wasn’t no chance to do nothing at first. They were in ’fore anybody knew anything. And maybe they didn’t work fast. Right down the line, scooping it up. No chance to do anything then. But I says to myself, ‘All righty, young fellows, you’ve got it all your own way now, but wait till you try to leave.’</p>
			<p>“And I was as good as my word, you bet you. I runs right to the door after them and cut loose with the old firearm. I got that fellow just as he was stepping into the car. I bet you I’d of got more of them if I’d of had more cartridges, because it’s kind of hard shooting down like that, standing in the⁠—”</p>
			<p>Noonan stopped the monologue by patting the old duffer’s back till his lungs were empty, telling him, “That certainly is fine. That certainly is fine.”</p>
			<p>McGraw pulled the robe up over the dead man again and growled:</p>
			<p>“Nobody can identify anybody. But with Jerry on it, it’s a cinch it was Whisper’s caper.”</p>
			<p>The chief nodded happily and said:</p>
			<p>“I’ll leave it in your hands, Mac. Going to poke around here, or going back to the Hall with me?” he asked me.</p>
			<p>“Neither. I’ve got a date, and I want to get into dry shoes.”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>Dinah Brand’s little Marmon was standing in front of the hotel. I didn’t see her. I went up to my room, leaving the door unlocked. I had got my hat and coat off when she came in without knocking.</p>
			<p>“My God, you keep a boozy smelling room,” she said.</p>
			<p>“It’s my shoes. Noonan took me wading in rum.”</p>
			<p>She crossed to the window, opened it, sat on the sill, and asked:</p>
			<p>“What was that for?”</p>
			<p>“He thought he was going to find your Max out in a dump called Cedar Hill Inn. So we went out there, shot the joint silly, murdered some dagoes, spilled gallons of liquor, and left the place burning.”</p>
			<p>“Cedar Hill Inn? I thought it had been closed up for a year or more.”</p>
			<p>“It looked it, but it was somebody’s warehouse.”</p>
			<p>“But you didn’t find Max there?” she asked.</p>
			<p>“While we were there he seems to have been knocking over Elihu’s First National Bank.”</p>
			<p>“I saw that,” she said. “I had just come out of Bengren’s, the store two doors away. I had just got in my car when I saw a big boy backing out of the bank, carrying a sack and a gun, with a black handkerchief over his face.”</p>
			<p>“Was Max with them?”</p>
			<p>“No, he wouldn’t be. He’d send Jerry and the boys. That’s what he has them for. Jerry was there. I knew him as soon as he got out of the car, in spite of the black handkerchief. They all had black ones. Four of them came out of the bank, running down to the car at the curb. Jerry and another fellow were in the car. When the four came across the sidewalk, Jerry jumped out and went to meet them. That’s when the shooting started and Jerry dropped. The others jumped in the bus and lit out. How about that dough you owe me?”</p>
			<p>I counted out ten twenty-dollar bills and a dime. She left the window to come for them.</p>
			<p>“That’s for pulling Dan off, so you could cop Max,” she said when she had stowed the money away in her bag. “Now how about what I was to get for showing you where you could turn up the dope on his killing Tim Noonan?”</p>
			<p>“You’ll have to wait till he’s indicted. How do I know the dope’s any good?”</p>
			<p>She frowned and asked:</p>
			<p>“What do you do with all the money you don’t spend?” Her face brightened. “You know where Max is now?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“What’s it worth to know?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll tell you for a hundred bucks.”</p>
			<p>“I wouldn’t want to take advantage of you that way.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll tell you for fifty bucks.”</p>
			<p>I shook my head.</p>
			<p>“Twenty-five.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t want him,” I said. “I don’t care where he is. Why don’t you peddle the news to Noonan?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, and try to collect. Do you only perfume yourself with booze, or is there any for drinking purposes?”</p>
			<p>“Here’s a bottle of so-called Dewar that I picked up at Cedar Hill this afternoon. There’s a bottle of King George in my bag. What’s your choice?”</p>
			<p>She voted for King George. We had a drink apiece, straight, and I said:</p>
			<p>“Sit down and play with it while I change clothes.”</p>
			<p>When I came out of the bathroom twenty-five minutes later she was sitting at the secretary, smoking a cigarette and studying a memoranda book that had been in a side pocket of my gladstone bag.</p>
			<p>“I guess these are the expenses you’ve charged up on other cases,” she said without looking up. “I’m damned if I can see why you can’t be more liberal with me. Look, here’s a six-hundred-dollar item marked <i>Inf.</i> That’s information you bought from somebody, isn’t it? And here’s a hundred and fifty below it⁠—<em>Top</em>⁠—whatever that is. And here’s another day when you spent nearly a thousand dollars.”</p>
			<p>“They must be telephone numbers,” I said, taking the book from her. “Where were you raised? Fanning my baggage!”</p>
			<p>“I was raised in a convent,” she told me. “I won the good behavior prize every year I was there. I thought little girls who put extra spoons of sugar in their chocolate went to hell for gluttony. I didn’t even know there was such a thing as profanity until I was eighteen. The first time I heard any I damned near fainted.” She spit on the rug in front of her, tilted her chair back, put her crossed feet on my bed, and asked: “What do you think of that?”</p>
			<p>I pushed her feet off the bed and said:</p>
			<p>“I was raised in a waterfront saloon. Keep your saliva off my floor or I’ll toss you out on your neck.”</p>
			<p>“Let’s have another drink first. Listen, what’ll you give me for the inside story of how the boys didn’t lose anything building the City Hall⁠—the story that was in the papers I sold Donald Willsson?”</p>
			<p>“That doesn’t click with me. Try another.”</p>
			<p>“How about why the first <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mrs.</abbr> Lew Yard was sent to the insane asylum?”</p>
			<p>“No.”</p>
			<p>“King, our sheriff, eight thousand dollars in debt four years ago, now the owner of as nice a collection of downtown business blocks as you’d want to see. I can’t give you all of it, but I can show you where to get it.”</p>
			<p>“Keep trying,” I encouraged her.</p>
			<p>“No. You don’t want to buy anything. You’re just hoping you’ll pick up something for nothing. This isn’t bad Scotch. Where’d you get it?”</p>
			<p>“Brought it from San Francisco with me.”</p>
			<p>“What’s the idea of not wanting any of this information I’m offering? Think you can get it cheaper?”</p>
			<p>“Information of that kind’s not much good to me now. I’ve got to move quick. I need dynamite⁠—something to blow them apart.”</p>
			<p>She laughed and jumped up, her big eyes sparkling.</p>
			<p>“I’ve got one of Lew Yard’s cards. Suppose we sent the bottle of Dewar you copped to Pete with the card. Wouldn’t he take it as a declaration of war? If Cedar Hill was a liquor cache, it was Pete’s. Wouldn’t the bottle and Lew’s card make him think Noonan had knocked the place over under orders?”</p>
			<p>I considered it and said:</p>
			<p>“Too crude. It wouldn’t fool him. Besides, I’d just as leave have Pete and Lew both against the chief at this stage.”</p>
			<p>She pouted and said:</p>
			<p>“You think you know everything. You’re just hard to get along with. Take me out tonight? I’ve got a new outfit that’ll knock them cockeyed.”</p>
			<p>“Yeah.”</p>
			<p>“Come up for me around eight.”</p>
			<p>She patted my cheek with a warm hand, said, “Ta-ta,” and went out as the telephone bell began jingling.</p>
			<hr/>
			<p>“My chinch and Dick’s are together at your client’s joint,” Mickey Linehan reported over the wire. “Mine’s been generally busier than a hustler with two bunks, though I don’t know what the score is yet. Anything new?”</p>
			<p>I said there wasn’t and went into conference with myself across the bed, trying to guess what would come of Noonan’s attack on Cedar Hill Inn and Whisper’s on the First National Bank. I would have given something for ability to hear what was being said up at old Elihu’s house by him, Pete the Finn, and Lew Yard. But I hadn’t that ability, and I was never much good at guessing, so after half an hour I stopped tormenting my brain and took a nap.</p>
			<p>It was nearly seven o’clock when I came out of the nap. I washed, dressed, loaded my pockets with a gun and a pint flask of Scotch, and went up to Dinah’s.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
